
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee July 28-29, 2020
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee 
July 28–29, 2020 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
and the Board of Governors was held by videoconfer-
ence on Tuesday, July 28, 2020, at 10:00 a.m. and con-
tinued on Wednesday, July 29, 2020, at 9:00 a.m.1 
PRESENT: 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lael Brainard 
Richard H. Clarida 
Patrick Harker 
Robert S. Kaplan 
Neel Kashkari 
Loretta J. Mester 
Randal K. Quarles 
Thomas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, Mary C. Daly, 
Charles L. Evans, and Michael Strine, Alternate 
Members of the Federal Open Market Committee 
James Bullard, Esther L. George, and Eric Rosengren, 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of St. 
Louis, Kansas City, and Boston, respectively 
James A. Clouse, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Michael Held, Deputy General Counsel 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
Beth Anne Wilson, Economist 
Shaghil Ahmed,2 Michael Dotsey, Beverly Hirtle, 
Trevor A. Reeve, Ellis W. Tallman, William 
Wascher, and Mark L.J. Wright, Associate 
Economists  
Lorie K. Logan, Manager, System Open Market 
Account 
Ann E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, 
Board of Governors 
1 The Federal Open Market Committee is referenced as the 
“FOMC” and the “Committee” in these minutes. 
2 Attended through the discussion of economic developments 
and the outlook, and all of Wednesday’s session. 
Eric Belsky,3 Director, Division of Consumer and 
Community Affairs, Board of Governors; Matthew 
J. Eichner,4 Director, Division of Reserve Bank
Operations and Payment Systems, Board of
Governors; Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division
of Supervision and Regulation, Board of
Governors; Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of
Financial Stability, Board of Governors
Daniel M. Covitz, Deputy Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Brian 
M. Doyle, Deputy Director, Division of
International Finance, Board of Governors;
Rochelle M. Edge, Deputy Director, Division of
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Division 
of Board Members, Board of Governors 
Joshua Gallin, Special Adviser to the Chair, Division of 
Board Members, Board of Governors 
William F. Bassett, Antulio N. Bomfim, Wendy E. 
Dunn, Ellen E. Meade, Chiara Scotti, and Ivan 
Vidangos, Special Advisers to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board of Governors 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board of Governors 
Eric M. Engen and David E. Lebow, Senior Associate 
Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, 
Board of Governors; Gretchen C. Weinbach, 
Senior Associate Director, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors 
Edward Nelson and Robert J. Tetlow, Senior Advisers, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
David López-Salido,3 Associate Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Paul R. 
Wood, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance, Board of Governors 
3 Attended through the discussion of the review of monetary 
policy strategy, tools, and communication practices. 
4 Attended through the discussion of developments in finan-
cial markets and open market operations. 
Page 1
Eric C. Engstrom and Christopher J. Gust,3 Deputy 
Associate Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors; Luca Guerrieri, Deputy 
Associate Director, Division of Financial Stability, 
Board of Governors; Norman J. Morin, Deputy 
Associate Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics, Board of Governors; Jeffrey D. Walker,4 
Deputy Associate Director, Division of Reserve 
Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board of 
Governors  
Brian J. Bonis and Etienne Gagnon,3 Assistant 
Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors; Viktors Stebunovs,5 Assistant Director, 
Division of International Finance, Board of 
Governors 
Brett Berger,6 Adviser, Division of International 
Finance, Board of Governors  
Penelope A. Beattie,7 Section Chief, Office of the 
Secretary, Board of Governors; Dana L. Burnett, 
Section Chief, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
of Governors 
David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
Michele Cavallo and Kurt F. Lewis, Principal 
Economists, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
of Governors 
Marcelo Ochoa, Senior Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
Randall A. Williams, Senior Information Manager, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
James Narron, First Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia 
David Altig, Kartik B. Athreya, Joseph W. Gruber, 
Daleep Singh, and Christopher J. Waller, Executive 
Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, 
Richmond, Kansas City, New York, and St. Louis, 
respectively 
5 Attended the discussion of economic developments and the 
outlook.  
Michael Schetzel,6 Senior Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York 
Eugene Amromin, Kathryn B. Chen,6 Matthew 
Nemeth,6 Joe Peek, and Patricia Zobel, Vice 
Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago, 
New York, New York, Boston, and New York, 
respectively 
Robert Lerman,6 Assistant Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York 
Karel Mertens, Senior Economic Policy Advisor, Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Mark Spiegel, Senior Policy Advisor, Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco 
Review of Monetary Policy Strategy, Tools, and 
Communication Practices 
Participants continued their discussion related to the on-
going review of the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy 
strategy, tools, and communication practices.  At this 
meeting, they discussed potential changes to the Com-
mittee’s Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary 
Policy Strategy.  Participants agreed that, in light of fun-
damental changes in the economy over the past dec-
ade—including generally lower levels of interest rates 
and persistent disinflationary pressures in the United 
States and abroad—and given what has been learned 
during the monetary policy framework review, refining 
the statement could be helpful in increasing the trans-
parency and accountability of monetary policy.  Such re-
finements could also facilitate well-informed deci-
sionmaking by households and businesses, and, as a re-
sult, better position the Committee to meet its maxi-
mum-employment and price-stability objectives.  Partic-
ipants noted that the Statement on Longer-Run Goals 
and Monetary Policy Strategy serves as the foundation 
for the Committee’s policy actions and that it would be 
important to finalize all changes to the statement in the 
near future. 
Developments in Financial Markets and Open Mar-
ket Operations 
The System Open Market Account (SOMA) manager 
turned first to a review of U.S. financial market develop-
ments.  Over the intermeeting period, overall financial 
conditions eased slightly.  Broad equity price indexes 
6 Attended the discussion of developments in financial mar-
kets and open market operations. 
7 Attended Tuesday’s session only. 
were roughly flat even as concerns about the resurgence 
in the coronavirus (COVID-19) in the United States 
grew.  At the same time, Treasury yields and other sov-
ereign yields declined, and the U.S. dollar weakened.  
Overall, volatility remained subdued relative to recent 
periods. 
While the S&P 500 index was little changed, the effect 
of renewed outbreaks was evident in the differentiated 
performance across S&P industry sectors.  Virus-sensi-
tive sectors and firms with weaker fundamentals under-
performed over the period, as they had over the broader 
pandemic episode.  Airline and hotel share prices de-
clined sharply, and share prices of banks—which faced 
earnings pressures from large loan loss provisions and 
compressed net interest margins—continued to under-
perform.  As the SOMA manager highlighted, the S&P 
500 index has been supported by its significant share of 
technology firms, many of which have been relatively re-
silient to virus containment measures.  In contrast, 
smaller firms not well represented in the S&P 500 may 
be experiencing greater effects on their businesses due 
to the virus—a possibility consistent with the underper-
formance of the broader Russell 2000 index over the in-
termeeting period. 
The market-implied path of the federal funds rate shifted 
down modestly over the intermeeting period.  The cor-
responding path implied by responses to the Open Mar-
ket Desk’s Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of 
Market Participants also fell, as the probabilities placed 
on rate hikes next year and in 2022 declined.  Market 
pricing suggested that the federal funds rate was ex-
pected to first rise above the current target range in 2024.  
That timing was broadly consistent with survey respond-
ents’ expectations regarding the timing of the first in-
crease in the target range, although the range of survey 
responses was wide.  The SOMA manager noted that 
survey responses suggested that the dispersion in views 
about the timing of a rate increase might be related to 
differing views about the economic conditions that 
would prevail when the FOMC first lifted the target 
range, as survey respondents’ views about those condi-
tions were also dispersed. 
The SOMA manager reported that market functioning 
across a number of market segments remained stable at 
significantly improved levels.  In Treasury and agency 
mortgage-backed securities (MBS) markets, many mar-
8 The approved FIMA Desk Resolution, which updates the 
March 2020 resolution with a new expiration date, is available 
with other Committee organizational documents at 
ket functioning indicators had returned to levels prevail-
ing before the pandemic, and, as a result, purchases were 
conducted at the minimum pace directed by the Com-
mittee.  Importantly, with conditions in MBS markets 
continuing to stabilize, primary mortgage rates fell to 
historically low levels over the intermeeting period. 
Conditions in short-term dollar funding markets were 
also stable, with overnight rates close to the interest on 
excess reserves (IOER) rate.  In broader dollar funding 
markets, term unsecured rates and foreign exchange 
swap spreads were also steady.  Federal Reserve repur-
chase agreements (repos) outstanding fell from $185 bil-
lion to zero over the intermeeting period.  With the tim-
ing of the overnight operations now having shifted to 
the afternoon when most trading activity in the repo 
market is complete and with minimum bid rates above 
the IOER rate, repo operations had been effectively po-
sitioned in a backstop role for the time being.  As term 
U.S. dollar liquidity swaps matured, the amounts out-
standing fell to around $120 billion, less than a third of 
the peak reached in late May. 
In light of improved conditions across these markets, 
the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet declined over the in-
termeeting period from $7.2 trillion to $7.0 trillion.  The 
decline was driven by the reductions in repo and U.S. 
dollar liquidity swaps outstanding.  These reductions 
more than offset ongoing purchases of Treasury securi-
ties and agency MBS. 
The manager discussed a proposal to extend the tempo-
rary U.S. dollar liquidity swap arrangements as well as 
the temporary FIMA (Foreign and International Mone-
tary Authorities) Repo Facility through March of next 
year.  Keeping these arrangements in place would help 
sustain recent improvements in global dollar funding 
markets and support smooth functioning of the U.S. 
Treasury market.  Under the proposal, provided that the 
Committee had no objections, the Chair would approve 
the extension of the temporary liquidity swap lines fol-
lowing the meeting.  The extensions of the swap and 
FIMA repo arrangements would be announced follow-
ing this meeting. 
By unanimous vote, the Committee voted to approve a 
resolution that extended through March 31, 2021, the 
expiration of a temporary repo facility for foreign and 
international monetary authorities (FIMA Repo Facil-
ity).8  
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/rulesau-
thorizations.htm.   
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/rulesauthorizations.htm
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/rulesauthorizations.htm
Secretary’s note:  The Chair subsequently pro-
vided approval to the Desk, following the pro-
cedures in the Authorization for Foreign Cur-
rency Operations, to extend the expiration of 
the temporary U.S. dollar liquidity swap lines 
through March 31, 2021.  
By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk’s 
domestic transactions over the intermeeting period.  
There were no intervention operations in foreign curren-
cies for the System’s account during the intermeeting pe-
riod. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation 
The coronavirus outbreak and the measures undertaken 
to contain its spread continued to have substantial ef-
fects on economic activity in the United States and 
abroad.  The information available at the time of the 
July 28–29 meeting suggested that U.S. economic activ-
ity had picked up in May and June following sharp de-
clines in March and April.  Measured on a quarterly basis, 
however, it appeared that real gross domestic product 
(GDP) had decreased at a historically rapid rate in the 
second quarter.  Labor market conditions improved con-
siderably in June, but the improvements over May and 
June were modest relative to the substantial deteriora-
tion seen in March and April.  Consumer price infla-
tion—as measured by the 12-month percentage change 
in the price index for personal consumption expendi-
tures (PCE) through May—remained well below the 
rates that prevailed early in the year. 
Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded robustly 
in June, as it did in May, but the gains in those two 
months offset only about one-third of the jobs lost in 
March and April.  The unemployment rate moved down 
further to 11.1 percent, but it continued to be far above 
its level at the beginning of the year.  The unemployment 
rates for African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics de-
clined, on balance, over the past two months but re-
mained well above the national average.  Both the labor 
force participation rate and the employment-to-popula-
tion ratio increased further in June.  Initial claims for un-
employment insurance benefits continued to decrease, 
on net, through the middle of July, but the pace of de-
clines had slowed in recent weeks.  In addition, weekly 
estimates of private-sector payrolls constructed by the 
Board’s staff using data provided by the payroll proces-
sor ADP, along with some other high-frequency 
measures—such as employment at small businesses and 
job postings—suggested that employment gains had 
slowed since mid-June but likely were still strong. 
Total PCE price inflation was 0.5 percent over the 
12 months ending in May, reflecting both weak aggre-
gate demand and a considerable drop in consumer en-
ergy prices.  Core PCE price inflation, which excludes 
changes in consumer food and energy prices, was 
1.0 percent over the same 12-month period.  In contrast, 
the trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price in-
flation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dal-
las was 2.0 percent in May.  The consumer price index 
(CPI) increased 0.6 percent over the 12 months ending 
in June, while core CPI inflation was 1.2 percent over 
the same period.  On a monthly basis, the available data 
indicated that consumer prices—as measured by the 
PCE price index in May and the CPI in June—had 
turned up after having fallen in March and April; this re-
bound was evident in many price categories that were 
most affected by social-distancing measures.  Recent 
readings on survey-based measures of longer-run infla-
tion expectations were little changed on balance.  The 
University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers measure 
for the next 5 to 10 years was unchanged, on net, from 
May to early July; the three-year-ahead measure from the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Survey of Con-
sumer Expectations edged down in June but remained 
within its recent range. 
Real PCE rebounded robustly in May, with particularly 
strong growth in spending for consumer goods but more 
moderate gains in expenditures for consumer services.  
In June, the components of retail sales used by the Bu-
reau of Economic Analysis to estimate PCE, along with 
light motor vehicle sales, increased further.  Overall, 
however, real consumer spending remained well below 
the levels that prevailed at the beginning of the year.  
Moreover, recent high-frequency indicators of spending 
on many consumer services—such as restaurant dining, 
hotel accommodations, and air travel—remained very 
subdued.  Real disposable personal income fell back in 
May, primarily reflecting the waning of the substantial 
boost that federal stimulus payments had provided in 
April.  However, wage and salary income increased 
strongly in May, though to a level still below its February 
value, and unemployment insurance benefits continued 
to be substantial, leaving the personal saving rate quite 
elevated.  The consumer sentiment measures from both 
the Michigan survey and the Conference Board survey 
improved notably in June but fell back somewhat in July. 
Housing-sector activity bounced back strongly in recent 
months, likely boosted in part by the effects of low in-
terest rates.  Starts and building permit issuance for sin-
gle-family homes, along with starts of multifamily units, 
increased significantly over May and June; however, 
these construction measures were still below their pre-
pandemic levels.  Sales of existing homes rose substan-
tially over those two months, and new home sales also 
moved up on net. 
Indicators of business fixed investment suggested that 
investment had generally not begun to recover but that 
the pace of declines had moderated, on balance, in re-
cent months.  Nominal new orders and shipments of 
nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft increased in 
May and June, but they remained below their levels at 
the beginning of the year, while some measures of busi-
ness sentiment improved.  Nominal business spending 
on nonresidential structures outside of the drilling and 
mining sector declined further in May, and the number 
of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation—an indica-
tor of business spending on structures in the drilling and 
mining sector—continued to decrease through late July. 
Industrial production expanded briskly in May and June, 
as many factories reopened or ramped up production.  
The surge in manufacturing production was led by ap-
preciable gains in the output of motor vehicles and re-
lated parts following extended automaker shutdowns 
from mid-March through April.  In contrast, output in 
the mining sector—which includes crude oil extrac-
tion—decreased further, reflecting the effects of still-
low crude oil prices. 
Total real government purchases appeared to have in-
creased moderately, on balance, in the second quarter.  
Federal defense spending continued to rise through 
June, and nondefense purchases were likely boosted in 
the second quarter by fiscal policy measures taken in re-
sponse to the coronavirus.  In contrast, state and local 
purchases looked to have declined markedly, as the pay-
rolls of these governments shrank further in June, and 
nominal state and local construction expenditures de-
creased, on net, over April and May. 
The nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened in 
May relative to April, as exports decreased more than 
imports.  The fall in exports was broad based across 
goods categories, while lower imports of automotive 
products more than offset higher imports of consumer 
goods and industrial supplies.  Following April’s historic 
plunge, exports and imports of services fell a bit further 
in May, driven by the continued suspension of most in-
ternational travel.  Preliminary data for June showed 
some recovery in nominal goods exports and imports.  
Altogether, the available data suggested that net exports 
were a significant drag on the rate of change in real GDP 
in the second quarter. 
Incoming data suggested that foreign economic activity 
plunged in the second quarter as a result of the corona-
virus pandemic and the measures undertaken to contain 
it.  There were also signs that many foreign economies 
started to recover over the past few months as re-
strictions were gradually eased.  In China, where eco-
nomic activity had collapsed in the first quarter and re-
strictions were rolled back earlier than elsewhere, the 
preliminary GDP release showed that the economy 
bounced back strongly in the second quarter.  In the 
euro area and other advanced foreign economies, recent 
data on industrial production and, to a lesser extent, con-
sumer spending showed a partial recovery in May and 
June.  However, continued uncertainty about the course 
of the virus was underscored by the fact that some 
emerging market economies were struggling to control 
the pandemic, while some other countries that previ-
ously contained the virus were experiencing flare-ups of 
new infections.  Inflation rates continued to fall in most 
foreign economies through June because of low energy 
prices and weak demand, and measures of inflation ex-
pectations remained subdued. 
Staff Review of the Financial Situation 
Amid sizable fluctuations, changes in asset prices over 
the intermeeting period were mixed on net.  Financial 
market sentiment was boosted by better-than-expected 
economic data for the United States, China, and Europe.  
However, the boost to sentiment appeared to have been 
offset by concerns about the domestic spread of the 
coronavirus and its uncertain effects on the future 
course of the economy.  On balance, broad equity price 
indexes were roughly unchanged, Treasury yields de-
clined and the yield curve flattened, corporate and mu-
nicipal bond spreads narrowed, and the dollar weakened 
somewhat.  Liquidity conditions continued to normalize 
but had not returned to their pre-pandemic levels in sev-
eral markets. 
Over the intermeeting period, yields on nominal Treas-
ury securities fell and the yield curve flattened on net.  
Yields declined somewhat at the start of the intermeeting 
period following the more-accommodative-than-ex-
pected June FOMC communications.  The further de-
cline in yields that occurred over subsequent weeks likely 
reflected concerns about the surge in confirmed corona-
virus cases across many parts of the United States.  
Measures of inflation compensation based on Treasury 
Inflation Protected Securities maturing over the next few 
years continued to rebound from their sharp drop in 
mid-March.  The rebound was reportedly driven primar-
ily by investors’ interpretation of recent economic data, 
which suggested that the risk of deflation had abated 
somewhat, as well as by some improvement in market 
liquidity.  Despite the uptick, both the 5-year and 10-year 
measures of inflation compensation remained below 
their pre-pandemic levels.  The expected path of the fed-
eral funds rate based on a straight read of overnight in-
dex swap quotes declined modestly and stayed close to 
the effective lower bound at least through the first half 
of 2024.  Market-implied forward rates referring to 2021 
and 2022 remained slightly negative; however, market 
commentary suggested that investors generally did not 
expect the FOMC to lower the federal funds target range 
below zero. 
Broad stock price indexes fluctuated substantially, 
largely in reaction to news about the pandemic and eco-
nomic activity, and ended the intermeeting period 
roughly unchanged.  Technology stocks continued to 
outperform the broader market, whereas equity prices in 
the bank and energy sectors fell notably over the period.  
One-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 in-
dex—the VIX—rose markedly earlier in the period but 
subsequently declined and ended the period lower.  Eq-
uity market volatility remained elevated relative to its 
normal range over the past several years.  Spreads of in-
vestment- and speculative-grade corporate bond yields 
over comparable-maturity Treasury yields narrowed 
somewhat and had retraced most of their pandemic-re-
lated surge. 
Conditions in short-term funding markets were generally 
stable over the intermeeting period.  Spreads for nego-
tiable certificates of deposit and most types of commer-
cial paper were little changed, on net, and spreads and 
issuance volumes for both types of instruments reached 
pre-pandemic levels.  In light of the stable market con-
ditions, there was little activity in the emergency liquidity 
facilities.  Since the June FOMC meeting, assets under 
management for prime money market funds (MMFs) 
were little changed, whereas government MMFs experi-
enced moderate outflows.  Amid heavy issuance of se-
curities by the Treasury, government MMFs continued 
to increase their holdings of Treasury securities while re-
ducing their holdings of repos. 
The effective federal funds rate (EFFR) and Secured 
Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) increased, on aver-
age, 4 basis points and 5 basis points, respectively, from 
the previous intermeeting period.  The EFFR fluctuated 
between 8 and 10 basis points, and the SOFR fluctuated 
between 7 and 13 basis points, throughout the inter-
meeting period. The decline in total outstanding Federal 
Reserve repo operations from $185 billion to zero 
largely reflected an increase in minimum bid rates at the 
Federal Reserve’s overnight and term repo operations.  
Over the intermeeting period, the Federal Reserve main-
tained the purchases of Treasury securities and agency 
MBS at the pace prevailing at the end of the previous 
intermeeting period. 
Risk sentiment abroad fluctuated over the intermeeting 
period as market participants weighed increasing coro-
navirus cases in a number of countries against improving 
economic data releases and ongoing fiscal and monetary 
policy support.  Foreign equity prices generally declined 
on net.  A resurgence of geopolitical tensions between 
the United States and China weighed on investor senti-
ment late in the period and prompted a partial retrace-
ment of earlier gains for the Shanghai Composite Index. 
Long-term sovereign yields in most advanced foreign 
economies (AFEs) ended the period moderately lower.  
The yield spreads of long-term Italian bonds over their 
German counterparts narrowed further, reaching the 
lowest level since March following agreement on the Eu-
ropean Union (EU) Recovery Fund. 
The staff’s broad dollar index declined slightly, on net, 
with moderate depreciation against AFE currencies.  
The EU Recovery Fund agreement supported the euro, 
which appreciated about 3 percent against the dollar 
over the intermeeting period.  In contrast, the Brazilian 
real depreciated about 5 percent against the dollar, amid 
continued policy rate cuts by the Central Bank of Brazil, 
escalating coronavirus cases, and political turmoil in Bra-
zil. 
Capital market financing conditions for nonfinancial 
firms eased somewhat further over the intermeeting pe-
riod, with yields on corporate bonds remaining near his-
torical lows.  Investment-grade corporate bond issuance 
was solid in June, and speculative-grade issuance re-
mained robust.  Gross institutional leveraged loan issu-
ance picked up in June from its subdued levels in previ-
ous months.  Gross equity issuance hit a record level in 
June, as the volume of seasoned equity offerings reached 
a new record, while initial public offerings rebounded 
from their very low levels of the previous three months. 
In the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank 
Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported a notable 
tightening of lending standards on commercial and in-
dustrial (C&I) loans to firms of all sizes in the second 
quarter.  Standards were reported to be at the tighter end 
of their range since 2005, a marked change from a year 
ago.  C&I loans on banks’ balance sheets contracted sig-
nificantly in June, reflecting paydowns of the record 
draws on credit lines seen in previous months, as well as 
low originations. 
Credit quality of nonfinancial corporations deteriorated 
further over the intermeeting period, with a sizable vol-
ume of speculative-grade debt downgraded in June.  De-
faults in May reached their highest single-month volume 
since 2009, and June defaults were high as well.  Market 
indicators of future default expectations also deterio-
rated somewhat.  Municipal market financing conditions 
remained accommodative, although the credit quality of 
municipal debt continued to show signs of weakness. 
Financing conditions for small businesses remained 
tight.  Banks reported in the July SLOOS that the level 
of standards for small businesses was at the tighter end 
of the range since 2005.  At the same time, the credit 
needs of small businesses remained high, as the prospect 
arose of many businesses having to shut down opera-
tions again in response to rising coronavirus cases.  Small 
business loan performance deteriorated significantly; 
short-term delinquencies were comparable with levels 
seen in early 2008.  Amid tighter lending standards and 
high credit demand, advances via the Paycheck Protec-
tion Program Lending Facility continued to grow over 
the intermeeting period.  In early July, the Main Street 
Lending Program became fully operational. 
Financing conditions for commercial real estate (CRE), 
particularly those in capital markets, recovered further 
over the intermeeting period.  Spreads on non-agency 
commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) contin-
ued to decline in June, while issuance of non-agency 
CMBS continued to show signs of moderate recovery in 
May and June.  Spreads on agency CMBS remained at 
pre-pandemic levels, and agency CMBS issuance was 
strong.  In contrast, bank lending standards for CRE 
loans tightened further, according to the July SLOOS, 
and CRE loan growth at banks slowed.  The credit qual-
ity of existing CRE loans continued to deteriorate as fur-
ther signs of repayment difficulties emerged, most nota-
bly in the lodging and retail sectors. 
Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market 
were generally unchanged over the intermeeting period.  
The spread between the primary mortgage rate and MBS 
yields remained wide, reflecting capacity constraints at 
loan originators, increased origination costs, and de-
creases in the value of servicing rights.  Credit continued 
to flow to borrowers with higher credit scores seeking 
mortgages that met standard conforming loan criteria, 
and low mortgage interest rates supported elevated refi-
nancing activity.  Financing conditions remained tight, 
however, for borrowers with relatively low credit scores 
and for those seeking nonconforming mortgages.  The 
July SLOOS and other surveys of mortgage market con-
ditions suggested that both bank and nonbank lenders 
tightened standards in the second quarter.  The credit 
quality of mortgages did not appear to deteriorate fur-
ther over the period. 
Financing conditions for consumer credit tightened a bit 
further during the intermeeting period.  In the credit 
card market, lending standards at commercial banks 
tightened further according to the July SLOOS.  In con-
trast, conditions in the auto loan market appeared to be 
little changed, on balance, with those for subprime bor-
rowers remaining tight.  Conditions in the consumer as-
set-backed securities (ABS) markets were stable during 
the intermeeting period.  Yield spreads for certain highly 
rated credit card and auto loan ABS stabilized at pre-
pandemic levels, while student and auto loan ABS issu-
ance recovered to a pre-pandemic pace.  Consumer 
credit quality remained stable, partly due to forbearance 
programs. 
The staff provided an update on its assessment of the 
stability of the financial system, and, on balance, charac-
terized the financial vulnerabilities of the U.S. financial 
system as notable, while noting an unusually high level 
of uncertainty associated with this assessment.  The staff 
judged that asset valuation pressures were notable.  In 
particular, high-yield and investment-grade corporate 
bond spreads were within historical norms, and com-
mercial real estate prices were continuing to increase de-
spite rising vacancy rates.  The staff assessed vulnerabil-
ities due to nonfinancial leverage to have risen from 
moderate to notable, reflecting declines in household in-
comes and business profits; such declines implied less 
resilient borrowers.  The expected sharp decline in sec-
ond-quarter real GDP would likely result in a rise in the 
ratio of household debt to nominal GDP.  The ratio of 
business debt to nominal GDP rose in the first quarter 
from levels that were already historically high—amid de-
clining profits and deteriorating credit quality—although 
low interest rates had helped ease firms’ debt servicing 
burdens.  The staff assessed vulnerabilities arising from 
financial leverage to have increased from low to moder-
ate, citing uncertainty about losses connected to business 
loans for banks and a higher weight on vulnerabilities 
connected to leverage at nonbank financial institutions.  
Vulnerabilities associated with maturity and liquidity 
transformation were characterized as moderate, and the 
staff noted that Federal Reserve facilities reduced these 
vulnerabilities at nonbanks. 
Staff Economic Outlook 
In the U.S. economic projection prepared by the staff 
for the July FOMC meeting, the estimated level of real 
GDP in the second quarter was marked up compared 
with the June meeting forecast, reflecting the better-
than-expected data through June.  Nevertheless, eco-
nomic activity still appeared to have declined at a histor-
ically rapid rate in the second quarter.  The projected rate 
of recovery in real GDP, and the pace of declines in the 
unemployment rate, over the second half of this year 
were expected to be somewhat less robust than in the 
previous forecast.  Although the staff assumed that ad-
ditional fiscal stimulus measures would be enacted be-
yond those anticipated in the June forecast, the positive 
effect on the economic outlook was outweighed some-
what by the staff’s assessment of the likely effects of sev-
eral other factors.  Those factors included the increasing 
spread of the coronavirus in the United States since mid-
June; the reactions of many states and localities in slow-
ing or scaling back the reopening of their economies, es-
pecially for businesses, such as restaurants and bars, 
providing services that entail personal interactions; and 
some high-frequency indicators that pointed to a decel-
eration in economic activity.  Substantial fiscal policy 
measures—both enacted and anticipated—along with 
appreciable support from monetary policy and the Fed-
eral Reserve’s liquidity and lending facilities were ex-
pected to continue bolstering the economic recovery, 
although a complete recovery was not expected by year-
end.  Inflation was projected to remain subdued this 
year, reflecting the substantial amount of slack in re-
source utilization and the sizable declines in consumer 
energy prices earlier this year.  The staff’s baseline as-
sumptions were that the current restrictions on social in-
teractions and business operations, along with voluntary 
social distancing by individuals, would ease gradually 
through next year.  As a result, the rate of real GDP 
growth was projected to exceed potential output growth, 
the unemployment rate was expected to decline consid-
erably, and inflation was forecast to pick back up over 
2021 and 2022. 
The staff continued to observe that the uncertainty re-
lated to the economic effects of the pandemic was ex-
tremely elevated and that the unusual nature of the pan-
demic-related shock made assessments about how the 
economy might evolve in the future more challenging 
than usual.  In light of the significant uncertainty and 
downside risks associated with the course of the pan-
demic and how long it would take the economy to re-
cover, the staff still judged that a more pessimistic pro-
jection was no less plausible than the baseline forecast.  
In this alternative scenario, an acceleration of the coro-
navirus outbreak, with another round of strict limita-
tions on social interactions and business operations, was 
assumed to begin later this year, leading to a decrease in 
real GDP, a jump in the unemployment rate, and re-
newed downward pressure on inflation next year.  Com-
pared with the baseline, the disruption to economic ac-
tivity was more severe and protracted in this scenario, 
with real GDP and inflation lower and the unemploy-
ment rate higher by the end of the medium-term projec-
tion. 
Participants’ Views on Current Conditions and the 
Economic Outlook 
Participants noted that the coronavirus pandemic was 
causing tremendous human and economic hardship 
across the United States and around the world.  Follow-
ing sharp declines, economic activity and employment 
had picked up somewhat in recent months but remained 
well below levels at the beginning of the year.  Weaker 
demand and significantly lower oil prices were holding 
down consumer price inflation.  Overall financial condi-
tions had improved in recent months, in part reflecting 
policy measures to support the economy and the flow of 
credit to U.S. households and businesses.  Participants 
agreed that the path of the economy would depend on 
the course of the virus, which was seen as highly uncer-
tain. 
Participants noted that the rebound in consumer spend-
ing from its trough in April had been particularly strong.  
Resumption in economic activity, as well as payments to 
households under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Eco-
nomic Security (CARES) Act, had supported household 
income and consumer expenditures.  Participants ob-
served that with this rebound, household spending likely 
had recovered about half of its previous decline.  Con-
sumers’ purchases of goods—including motor vehicles, 
other durables, and especially goods sold online—had 
bounced back much more than their purchases of ser-
vices, such as air travel, hotel accommodations, and res-
taurant meals, which were disrupted significantly by so-
cial distancing and other effects of the virus.  With re-
gard to the behavior of household spending in recent 
weeks, participants pointed to information from District 
contacts and high-frequency indicators (such as credit 
and debit card transactions and mobility indicators based 
on cellphone location tracking) as suggesting that in-
creases in some consumer expenditures had likely 
slowed in reaction to the further spread of the virus.  
Participants noted that households’ spending on discre-
tionary services—such as leisure, travel, and hospital-
ity—would likely be subdued for some time and thus 
would be a factor restraining the pace of recovery. 
In contrast to the sizable rebound in consumer spend-
ing, participants saw less improvement in the business 
sector in recent months, and they noted that their Dis-
trict business contacts continued to report extraordinar-
ily high levels of uncertainty and risks.  Several partici-
pants relayed examples of some operational difficulties 
their business contacts were reportedly facing in the cur-
rent environment.  These difficulties included managing 
disruptions in supply chains, challenges associated with 
closure and reopening, and elevated employee absentee-
ism in some cases.  Furthermore, some participants 
noted that small businesses were under significant strain.  
Also, further near-term fiscal support was uncertain.  
Participants noted that, in light of conditions in the busi-
ness sector, business investment spending continued to 
be subdued.  Participants generally agreed that actions of 
consumers and businesses in taking steps to slow the 
spread of the virus, along with developments in public 
health, would be critical in ensuring a durable reopening 
of businesses.  In addition, monetary policy and particu-
larly fiscal policy would also play important roles in sup-
porting business activity. 
Several participants also commented on ongoing chal-
lenges facing the energy or farm sector despite recent 
improvements.  In the energy sector, these challenges in-
cluded still-low oil demand, excess inventories, and low 
oil prices, while in the farm sector they included low 
prices of some farm commodities, pandemic-related dis-
ruptions in some food processing plants, and a signifi-
cant decline in demand for ethanol. 
Regarding the labor market, many participants com-
mented that the pace of employment gains, which was 
quite strong in May and June, had likely slowed.  The 
increasing number of virus cases in many parts of the 
country had led to delays in some business reopenings 
and to some reclosures as well.  The pace of declines in 
initial unemployment insurance claims had slowed in re-
cent weeks, and claims remained at an elevated level.  In 
addition, participants emphasized that the labor market 
was a long way from a full recovery even after the posi-
tive May and June employment reports; these reports in-
dicated that, through June, only about one-third of the 
roughly 22 million loss in jobs that occurred over March 
and April had been offset by subsequent gains.  Partici-
pants generally agreed that prospects for further sub-
stantial improvement in the labor market would depend 
on a broad and sustained reopening of businesses.  In 
turn, such a reopening would depend in large part on the 
efficacy of health measures taken to limit the spread of 
the virus. 
Participants also discussed the nature of the current sit-
uation in the labor market.  They noted that the down-
turn in employment was concentrated among lower-
wage and service-sector workers, many of whom were 
employed in industries most adversely affected by social-
distancing measures.  And with lower-wage and service-
sector jobs disproportionately held by African Ameri-
cans, Hispanics, and women, these portions of the pop-
ulation were bearing a disproportionate share of the eco-
nomic hardship caused by the pandemic.  Participants 
noted that the fiscal support initiated in the spring 
through the CARES Act had been very important in 
granting some financial relief to millions of families.  A 
number of participants observed that, with some provi-
sions of the CARES Act set to expire shortly against the 
backdrop of a still-weak labor market, additional fiscal 
aid would likely be important for supporting vulnerable 
families, and thus the economy more broadly, in the pe-
riod ahead. 
In their comments about inflation, participants generally 
judged that the negative effect of the pandemic on ag-
gregate demand was more than offsetting upward pres-
sures on some prices stemming from supply constraints 
or from higher demand for certain products, so that the 
overall effect of the pandemic on prices was seen as dis-
inflationary.  Recent low monthly readings of PCE prices 
suggested that the 12-month change measure of PCE 
price inflation would likely continue to run well below 
the Committee’s 2 percent objective for some time.  
Against this backdrop, a few participants noted a risk 
that longer-term inflation expectations might move be-
low levels consistent with the Committee’s symmetric 
2 percent objective.  Participants also noted that a highly 
accommodative stance of monetary policy would likely 
be needed for some time to support aggregate demand 
and achieve 2 percent inflation over the longer run. 
Participants observed that many measures of financial 
market functioning were indicating that improvements 
achieved since the extreme turbulence in March had 
been sustained.  Actions by the Federal Reserve, includ-
ing emergency lending facilities established with ap-
proval of (and, in many cases, financial support from) 
the Treasury, had helped ease the strains in some finan-
cial markets seen earlier in the year and were supporting 
the flow of credit to households, businesses, and com-
munities.  Participants observed that the volume of bor-
rowing in recent months at many of the Federal Re-
serve’s liquidity facilities had stayed low, reflecting im-
proved availability of funding from market sources.  And 
participants agreed that the Federal Reserve’s ongoing 
provision of backstop credit in various forms continued 
to be important to sustain the market improvements al-
ready achieved. 
Participants observed that uncertainty surrounding the 
economic outlook remained very elevated, with the path 
of the economy highly dependent on the course of the 
virus and the public sector’s response to it.  Several risks 
to the outlook were noted, including the possibility that 
additional waves of virus outbreaks could result in ex-
tended economic disruptions and a protracted period of 
reduced economic activity.  In such scenarios, banks and 
other lenders could tighten conditions in credit markets 
appreciably and restrain the availability of credit to 
households and businesses.  Other risks cited included 
the possibility that fiscal support for households, busi-
nesses, and state and local governments might not pro-
vide sufficient relief of financial strains in these sectors 
and that some foreign economies could come under 
greater pressure than anticipated as a result of the spread 
of the pandemic abroad.  Several participants noted po-
tential longer-run effects of the pandemic associated 
with possible restructuring in some sectors of the econ-
omy that could slow the growth of the economy’s pro-
ductive capacity for some time. 
A number of participants commented on various poten-
tial risks to financial stability.  Banks and other financial 
institutions could come under significant stress, particu-
larly if one of the more adverse scenarios regarding the 
spread of the virus and its effects on economic activity 
was realized.  Nonfinancial corporations had carried 
high levels of indebtedness into the pandemic, increas-
ing their risk of insolvency.  There were also concerns 
that the anticipated increase in Treasury debt over the 
next few years could have implications for market func-
tioning.  There was general agreement that these institu-
tions, activities, and markets should be monitored 
closely, and a few participants noted that improved data 
would be helpful for doing so.  Several participants ob-
served that the Federal Reserve had recently taken steps 
to help ensure that banks remain resilient through the 
pandemic, including by conducting additional sensitivity 
analysis in conjunction with the most recent bank stress 
tests and imposing temporary restrictions on share-
holder payouts to preserve banks’ capital.  A couple of 
participants noted that they believed that restrictions on 
shareholder payouts should be extended, while another 
judged that such a step would be premature. 
In their consideration of monetary policy at this meeting, 
participants reaffirmed their commitment to using the 
Federal Reserve’s full range of tools to support the U.S. 
economy during this challenging time, thereby promot-
ing its maximum employment and price stability goals.  
They noted that the path of the economy would depend 
significantly on the course of the virus and that the on-
going public health crisis would weigh heavily on eco-
nomic activity, employment, and inflation in the near 
term and posed considerable risks to the economic out-
look over the medium term.  In light of this assessment, 
all participants considered it appropriate to maintain the 
target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent.  
Furthermore, participants continued to judge that it 
would be appropriate to maintain this target range until 
they were confident that the economy had weathered re-
cent events and was on track to achieve the Committee’s 
maximum employment and price stability goals. 
Participants also judged that, in order to continue to sup-
port the flow of credit to households and businesses, it 
would be appropriate over coming months for the Fed-
eral Reserve to increase its holdings of Treasury securi-
ties and agency residential mortgage-backed securities 
(RMBS) and CMBS at least at the current pace.  These 
actions would be helpful in sustaining smooth market 
functioning, thereby fostering the effective transmission 
of monetary policy to broader financial conditions.  In 
addition, participants noted that it was appropriate that 
the Desk would continue to offer large-scale overnight 
and term repo operations.  Participants observed that it 
would be important to continue to monitor develop-
ments closely and that the Committee would be pre-
pared to adjust its plans as appropriate. 
Participants discussed the current stance of monetary 
policy and the circumstances under which they might in-
crease monetary policy accommodation or clarify their 
intentions regarding policy.  Participants generally 
judged that the Committee’s policy actions over the past 
several months had provided substantial accommoda-
tion; several of them observed that the Committee’s as-
set purchases, which were designed to support financial 
market functioning and the smooth flow of credit, were 
likely also providing a degree of policy accommodation.  
Noting the increase in uncertainty about the economic 
outlook over the intermeeting period, several  partici-
pants suggested that additional accommodation could be 
required to promote economic recovery and return in-
flation to the Committee’s 2 percent objective.  Some 
participants observed that, due to the nature of the 
shock that the U.S. economy was experiencing, strong 
fiscal policy support would be necessary to encourage 
expeditious improvements in labor market conditions. 
With regard to the outlook for monetary policy beyond 
this meeting, a number of participants noted that provid-
ing greater clarity regarding the likely path of the target 
range for the federal funds rate would be appropriate at 
some point.  Concerning the possible form that revised 
policy communications might take, these participants 
commented on outcome-based forward guidance—un-
der which the Committee would undertake to maintain 
the current target range for the federal funds rate at least 
until one or more specified economic outcomes was 
achieved—and also touched on calendar-based forward 
guidance—under which the current target range would 
be maintained at least until a particular calendar date.  In 
the context of outcome-based forward guidance, various 
participants mentioned using thresholds calibrated to in-
flation outcomes, unemployment rate outcomes, or 
combinations of the two, as well as combinations with 
calendar-based guidance.  In addition, many participants 
commented that it might become appropriate to frame 
communications regarding the Committee’s ongoing as-
set purchases more in terms of their role in fostering ac-
commodative financial conditions and supporting eco-
nomic recovery.  More broadly, in discussing the policy 
outlook, a number of participants observed that com-
pleting a revised Statement on Longer-Run Goals and 
Monetary Policy Strategy would be very helpful in 
providing an overarching framework that would help 
guide the Committee’s future policy actions and com-
munications. 
A majority of participants commented on yield caps and 
targets—approaches that cap or target interest rates 
along the yield curve—as a monetary policy tool.  Of 
those participants who discussed this option, most 
judged that yield caps and targets would likely provide 
only modest benefits in the current environment, as the 
Committee’s forward guidance regarding the path of the 
federal funds rate already appeared highly credible and 
longer-term interest rates were already low.  Many of 
these participants also pointed to potential costs associ-
ated with yield caps and targets.  Among these costs, par-
ticipants noted the possibility of an excessively rapid ex-
pansion of the balance sheet and difficulties in the design 
and communication of the conditions under which such 
a policy would be terminated, especially in conjunction 
with forward guidance regarding the policy rate.  In light 
of these concerns, many participants judged that yield 
caps and targets were not warranted in the current envi-
ronment but should remain an option that the Commit-
tee could reassess in the future if circumstances changed 
markedly.  A couple of participants remarked on the 
value of yield caps and targets as a means of reinforcing 
forward guidance on asset purchases, thereby providing 
insurance against adverse movements in market expec-
tations regarding the path of monetary policy, and as a 
tool that could help limit the amount of asset purchases 
that the Committee would need to make in pursuing its 
dual-mandate goals.  
Committee Policy Action 
In their discussion of monetary policy for this meeting, 
members agreed that the coronavirus outbreak was caus-
ing tremendous human and economic hardship across 
the United States and around the world.  Following 
sharp declines, economic activity and employment had 
picked up somewhat in recent months but remained well 
below their levels at the beginning of the year.  Con-
sumer price inflation was being held down by weaker de-
mand and significantly lower oil prices.  Overall financial 
conditions had improved, in part reflecting policy 
measures to support the economy and the flow of credit 
to U.S. households, businesses, and communities.  Mem-
bers agreed that the Federal Reserve was committed to 
using its full range of tools to support the U.S. economy 
in this challenging time, thereby promoting its maximum 
employment and price stability goals. 
Members stated that the path of the economy would de-
pend significantly on the course of the virus.  In addi-
tion, members agreed that the ongoing public health cri-
sis would weigh heavily on economic activity, employ-
ment, and inflation in the near term and was posing con-
siderable risks to the economic outlook over the me-
dium term.  In light of these developments, members 
decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds 
rate at 0 to ¼ percent.  Members stated that they ex-
pected to maintain this target range until they were con-
fident that the economy had weathered recent events 
and was on track to achieve the Committee’s maximum 
employment and price stability goals. 
Members agreed that they would continue to monitor 
the implications of incoming information for the eco-
nomic outlook—including information related to public 
health—as well as global developments and muted infla-
tion pressures, and that they would use the Committee’s 
tools and act as appropriate to support the economy.  In 
determining the timing and size of future adjustments to 
the stance of monetary policy, members noted that they 
would assess realized and expected economic conditions 
relative to the Committee’s maximum-employment ob-
jective and its symmetric 2 percent inflation objective.  
This assessment would take into account a wide range of 
information, including measures of labor market condi-
tions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation ex-
pectations, and readings on financial and international 
developments. 
To support the flow of credit to households and busi-
nesses, members agreed that over coming months it 
would be appropriate for the Federal Reserve to increase 
its holdings of Treasury securities and agency RMBS and 
CMBS at least at the current pace to sustain smooth mar-
ket functioning, thereby fostering effective transmission 
of monetary policy to broader financial conditions.  In 
addition, members agreed that the Desk would continue 
to offer large-scale overnight and term repo operations.  
Members noted that they would closely monitor devel-
opments and be prepared to adjust their plans as appro-
priate. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee 
voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, until instructed otherwise, to execute 
transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the fol-
lowing domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“Effective July 30, 2020, the Federal Open Mar-
ket Committee directs the Desk to: 
• Undertake open market operations as nec-
essary to maintain the federal funds rate in 
a target range of 0 to ¼ percent. 
• Increase the System Open Market Account 
holdings of Treasury securities, agency 
mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and 
agency commercial mortgage-backed secu-
rities (CMBS) at least at the current pace to 
sustain smooth functioning of markets for 
these securities, thereby fostering effective 
transmission of monetary policy to broader 
financial conditions. 
• Conduct term and overnight repurchase 
agreement operations to support effective 
policy implementation and the smooth 
functioning of short-term U.S. dollar fund-
ing markets. 
• Conduct overnight reverse repurchase 
agreement operations at an offering rate of 
0.00 percent and with a per-counterparty 
limit of $30 billion per day; the per-counter-
party limit can be temporarily increased at 
the discretion of the Chair. 
• Roll over at auction all principal payments 
from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of 
Treasury securities and reinvest all principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s hold-
ings of agency debt and agency MBS in 
agency MBS and all principal payments 
from holdings of agency CMBS in agency 
CMBS. 
• Allow modest deviations from stated 
amounts for purchases and reinvestments, 
if needed for operational reasons. 
• Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settle-
ment of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS 
transactions.” 
The vote also encompassed approval of the statement 
below for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“The Federal Reserve is committed to using its 
full range of tools to support the U.S. economy 
in this challenging time, thereby promoting its 
maximum employment and price stability goals. 
The coronavirus outbreak is causing tremen-
dous human and economic hardship across the 
United States and around the world.  Following 
sharp declines, economic activity and employ-
ment have picked up somewhat in recent 
months but remain well below their levels at the 
beginning of the year.  Weaker demand and sig-
nificantly lower oil prices are holding down con-
sumer price inflation.  Overall financial condi-
tions have improved in recent months, in part 
reflecting policy measures to support the econ-
omy and the flow of credit to U.S. households 
and businesses. 
The path of the economy will depend signifi-
cantly on the course of the virus.  The ongoing 
public health crisis will weigh heavily on eco-
nomic activity, employment, and inflation in the 
near term, and poses considerable risks to the 
economic outlook over the medium term.  In 
light of these developments, the Committee de-
cided to maintain the target range for the federal 
funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee 
expects to maintain this target range until it is 
confident that the economy has weathered re-
cent events and is on track to achieve its maxi-
mum employment and price stability goals. 
The Committee will continue to monitor the 
implications of incoming information for the 
economic outlook, including information re-
lated to public health, as well as global develop-
ments and muted inflation pressures, and will 
use its tools and act as appropriate to support 
the economy.  In determining the timing and 
size of future adjustments to the stance of mon-
etary policy, the Committee will assess realized 
and expected economic conditions relative to its 
maximum employment objective and its sym-
metric 2 percent inflation objective.  This as-
sessment will take into account a wide range of 
information, including measures of labor mar-
ket conditions, indicators of inflation pressures 
and inflation expectations, and readings on fi-
nancial and international developments. 
To support the flow of credit to households and 
businesses, over coming months the Federal 
Reserve will increase its holdings of Treasury se-
curities and agency residential and commercial 
mortgage-backed securities at least at the cur-
rent pace to sustain smooth market functioning, 
thereby fostering effective transmission of 
monetary policy to broader financial conditions.  
In addition, the Open Market Desk will con-
tinue to offer large-scale overnight and term re-
purchase agreement operations.  The Commit-
tee will closely monitor developments and is 
prepared to adjust its plans as appropriate.” 
Voting for this action:  Jerome H. Powell, John C. 
Williams, Michelle W. Bowman, Lael Brainard, Richard 
H. Clarida, Patrick Harker, Robert S. Kaplan, Neel 
Kashkari, Loretta J. Mester, and Randal K. Quarles. 
Voting against this action:  None. 
Consistent with the Committee’s decision to leave the 
target range for the federal funds rate unchanged, the 
Board of Governors voted unanimously to leave the in-
terest rates on required and excess reserve balances at 
0.10 percent.  The Board of Governors also voted unan-
imously to approve establishment of the primary credit 
rate at the existing level of 0.25 percent, effective July 30, 
2020. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee 
would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, Septem-
ber 15–16, 2020.  The meeting adjourned at 10:55 a.m. 
on July 29, 2020. 
Notation Vote  
By notation vote completed on June 30, 2020, the Com-
mittee unanimously approved the minutes of the Com-
mittee meeting held on June 9–10, 2020. 
James A. Clouse 
Secretary
