
FOMC Minutes January 30–31, 2024
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee 
January 30–31, 2024 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem was held in the offices of the Board of Governors 
on Tuesday, January 30, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. and contin-
ued on Wednesday, January 31, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.1 
Attendance 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Thomas I. Barkin 
Michael S. Barr 
Raphael W. Bostic 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lisa D. Cook 
Mary C. Daly 
Philip N. Jefferson 
Adriana D. Kugler 
Loretta J. Mester 
Christopher J. Waller 
Susan M. Collins, Austan D. Goolsbee, Kathleen 
O’Neill, Jeffrey R. Schmid, and Sushmita Shukla, 
Alternate Members of the Committee 
Patrick Harker, Neel Kashkari, and Lorie K. Logan, 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Dallas, respectively 
Joshua Gallin, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
Brian J. Bonis, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Richard Ostrander, Deputy General Counsel 
Trevor A. Reeve, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
Beth Anne Wilson, Economist 
Shaghil Ahmed, James A. Clouse, Edward S. Knotek II, 
David E. Lebow, Sylvain Leduc, Paula Tkac, and 
William Wascher, Associate Economists 
Roberto Perli, Manager, System Open Market Account 
Julie Ann Remache, Deputy Manager, System Open 
Market Account 
1 The Federal Open Market Committee is referenced as the 
“FOMC” and the “Committee” in these minutes; the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is referenced as 
the “Board” in these minutes. 
Stephanie R. Aaronson, Senior Associate Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics, Board 
Jose Acosta, Senior System Administrator II, Division 
of Information Technology, Board 
Isaiah C. Ahn, Information Management Analyst, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Roc Armenter, Executive Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Alyssa Arute, Manager, Division of Reserve Bank 
Operations and Payment Systems, Board 
Penelope A. Beattie,2 Section Chief, Office of the 
Secretary, Board 
David Bowman, Senior Associate Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Celso Brunetti,3 Assistant Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board  
Juan C. Climent, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
Daniel M. Covitz, Deputy Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board  
Jennifer S. Crystal, Senior Adviser, Division of 
International Finance, Board 
Stephanie E. Curcuru, Deputy Director, Division of 
International Finance, Board 
Ryan Decker, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Sarah Devany, First Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco 
Rochelle M. Edge, Deputy Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Eric C. Engstrom, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board  
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
2 Attended through the discussion of the economic and finan-
cial situation. 
3 Attended opening remarks for Tuesday’s session only. 
Page 1
Jenn Gallagher, Assistant to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Carlos Garriga, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis 
Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, Board 
Joseph W. Gruber, Executive Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Luca Guerrieri, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance, Board 
Christopher J. Gust, Associate Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Andrew Haughwout, Acting Director of Research, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Valerie S. Hinojosa, Section Chief, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jane E. Ihrig, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of 
Financial Stability, Board 
Kyungmin Kim, Principal Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Elizabeth K. Kiser, Senior Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics, Board 
Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial 
Stability, Board 
Kurt F. Lewis, Special Adviser to the Chair, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Dan Li,4 Assistant Director, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Laura Lipscomb, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
Ann E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, 
Board 
Phillip Monin, Senior Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Michelle M. Neal, Head of Markets, Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York 
Christopher J. Nekarda, Principal Economist, Division 
of Research and Statistics, Board 
4 Attended Tuesday’s session only. 
Anna Paulson, Executive Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Eugenio P. Pinto, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
Andrea Raffo, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis  
Andres Schneider, Principal Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Samuel Schulhofer-Wohl, Senior Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Felipe F. Schwartzman, Senior Economist, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Chiara Scotti,3 Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas    
Zeynep Senyuz, Deputy Associate Director, Division 
of Monetary Affairs, Board  
Arsenios Skaperdas, Senior Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Balint Szoke, Senior Economist, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Clara Vega, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Annette Vissing-Jørgensen, Senior Adviser, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jeffrey D. Walker, Associate Director, Division of 
Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board 
Fabian Winkler, Principal Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Paul R. Wood, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
Egon Zakrajsek, Executive Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston 
Rebecca Zarutskie, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
Annual Organizational Matters5  
The agenda for this meeting reported that advices of the 
election of the following members and alternate mem-
bers of the Federal Open Market Committee for a term 
beginning January 30, 2024, were received and that these 
individuals executed their oaths of office. 
The elected members and alternate members were as fol-
lows: 
John C. Williams, President of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, with Sushmita Shukla, First Vice President 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as alternate; 
Thomas I. Barkin, President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond, with Susan M. Collins, President of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, as alternate; 
Loretta J. Mester, President of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland, with Austan D. Goolsbee, President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, as alternate; 
Raphael W. Bostic, President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta, with Kathleen O’Neill, Interim Presi-
dent of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, as alter-
nate; 
Mary C. Daly, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco, with Jeffrey R. Schmid, President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, as alternate. 
By unanimous vote, the following officers of the Com-
mittee were selected to serve until the selection of their 
successors at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the 
Committee in 2025: 
Jerome H. Powell Chair 
John C. Williams Vice Chair 
Joshua Gallin Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke Deputy Secretary 
Brian J. Bonis Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide General Counsel 
Richard Ostrander Deputy General Counsel 
Charles C. Gray Assistant General Counsel 
Trevor A. Reeve Economist 
Stacey Tevlin Economist 
Beth Anne Wilson  Economist 
Shaghil Ahmed 
Kartik B. Athreya6 
James A. Clouse  
5 Committee organizational documents are available at 
www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/rulesauthoriza-
tions.htm.  
Brian M. Doyle 
Edward S. Knotek II 
David E. Lebow 
Sylvain Leduc 
Paula Tkac 
William Wascher 
Alexander L. Wolman Associate Economists  
By unanimous vote, the Committee selected the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York to execute transactions for 
the System Open Market Account (SOMA). 
By unanimous vote, the Committee selected Roberto 
Perli and Julie Ann Remache to serve at the pleasure of 
the Committee as manager and deputy manager of the 
SOMA, respectively, on the understanding that these se-
lections were subject to being satisfactory to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. 
Secretary’s note:  The Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York subsequently sent advice that the se-
lections indicated previously were satisfactory. 
By unanimous vote, the Committee approved the 
FOMC Authorizations and Continuing Directives for 
Open Market Operations, with a revision to Section II, 
Continuing Directive for Domestic Open Market Oper-
ations, to add a standing seven-day term option to the 
existing standing Foreign and International Monetary 
Authorities Repurchase Agreement Operations.   
Ahead of the vote on policies relating to investment and 
trading, information security, and external communica-
tions, the Chair commented on the critical importance 
of earning and keeping the public’s trust in the impar-
tiality of the Committee’s decisionmaking.  A revised in-
vestment and trading policy was proposed which ex-
panded the scope of employees subject to the Commit-
tee’s investment and trading rules, and introduced new 
investment restrictions on all employees with access to 
FOMC information.  All participants indicated support 
for, and agreed to abide by, the FOMC Policy on Invest-
ment and Trading for Committee Participants and Fed-
eral Reserve System Staff, the Program for Security of 
FOMC Information, the FOMC Policy on External 
Communications of Committee Participants, and the 
FOMC Policy on External Communications of Federal 
Reserve System Staff.  The Committee voted unani-
mously to approve those four policies.5 
6 Kartik B. Athreya’s selection was effective upon employment 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
http://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/rulesauthorizations.htm
http://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/rulesauthorizations.htm
Ahead of the vote on the Statement on Longer-Run 
Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, the Chair indicated 
the next five-year review of the statement would begin 
in the latter half of this year, and the results would be 
announced about a year later.  All participants indicated 
support for the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and 
Monetary Policy Strategy, and the Committee voted 
unanimously to reaffirm it without revision.5 
Developments in Financial Markets and Open 
Market Operations  
The manager turned first to a review of developments in 
financial markets over the intermeeting period.  Finan-
cial conditions eased modestly but remained about as 
tight as they were last summer and much tighter than 
when the hiking cycle began.  Over the intermeeting pe-
riod, declines in nominal Treasury yields were concen-
trated at the front end of the yield curve.  Staff models 
suggested that the declines in shorter-term yields were 
mostly attributable to a lower expected policy rate path 
and were concentrated in expected real rates, while ex-
pected inflation was little changed.  Pricing of inflation 
derivatives continued to suggest a near-term path of in-
flation consistent with a return to 2 percent later this 
year.  Broad equity prices reached new highs over the 
intermeeting period, but they were driven mostly by the 
strong gains of large-capitalization technology compa-
nies; broader measures of equity valuations were more 
subdued.  Still, equities appeared priced for continued 
economic resilience. 
The manager turned next to expectations for monetary 
policy.  Market participants broadly viewed recent infla-
tion data and the December Summary of Economic Pro-
jections (SEP) as increasing the odds that rate cuts might 
start sooner than previously thought.  The modal path 
of the federal funds rate from the Open Market Desk’s 
Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Partic-
ipants was little changed from December but showed an 
increased likelihood of earlier rate cuts.  The modal path 
implied by options prices declined some over the inter-
meeting period.  Both modal paths were closer to the 
December median SEP projection than the average path 
for the policy rate implied by futures prices, which had 
declined more substantially over the period.  The fu-
tures-based path likely reflected the effect of investors’ 
perceived probability of more substantial rate cuts rather 
than their baseline expectations. 
Communications over the period heightened market at-
tention around a potential slowing of balance sheet run-
off.  Most Desk survey respondents expected a slowing 
of the pace to start by July, although there was consider-
able uncertainty about the exact start date.  The average 
expected timing for the end of runoff shifted slightly ear-
lier, and the portfolio size at the end of runoff was 
slightly higher than in the December surveys. 
Regarding developments in money markets and Desk 
operations, the effective federal funds rate was stable 
over the intermeeting period.  While the Secured Over-
night Financing Rate experienced temporary and modest 
upward pressure over the past few month-ends, includ-
ing the year-end, such a pattern was common before the 
pandemic.  The usage of the overnight reverse repur-
chase agreement (ON RRP) facility continued to fall 
over the period, with balances below $600 billion in late 
January.  Since June 2023, when the debt ceiling was sus-
pended, usage of the ON RRP facility had declined at a 
much faster pace than the Federal Reserve securities 
portfolio, and reserve balances had increased some.   
As part of its ongoing market surveillance, the staff con-
tinued to monitor a wide range of money market indica-
tors; those gauges suggested that the supply of reserves 
remained abundant.  The staff also noted that once the 
ON RRP facility is either depleted or stabilized at a low 
level, reserves will decline at a pace comparable with the 
runoff of the Federal Reserve’s securities portfolio, all 
else equal. 
By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk’s 
domestic transactions over the intermeeting period.  
There were no intervention operations in foreign curren-
cies for the System’s account during the intermeeting pe-
riod. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation 
The data available at the time of the January 30–31 meet-
ing indicated that growth in U.S. real gross domestic 
product (GDP) was solid in the fourth quarter of 2023 
but had stepped down from the third quarter’s strong 
pace.  Labor market conditions continued to be tight but 
showed further signs of easing.  Consumer price infla-
tion had declined markedly over the course of the year, 
though it remained above 2 percent. 
Labor demand and supply continued to gradually move 
into better alignment.  The average monthly pace of 
nonfarm payroll employment gains in the fourth quarter 
was slower than in the third quarter.  The unemployment 
rate remained at 3.7 percent in December, the same as 
its third-quarter average.  However, the labor force par-
ticipation rate moved down, as did the employment-to-
population ratio.  The African American unemployment 
rate declined, and the rate for Hispanics rose; both rates 
were higher than those for Asians and for whites.  The 
private-sector job openings rate was little changed in 
November and December, and the quits rate edged 
down; both rates were below their levels at the start of 
2023.  Easing labor market imbalances were also appar-
ent in the wage data, with the December 12-month 
changes in the employment cost index and in average 
hourly earnings for all employees each below their year-
earlier levels. 
Consumer price inflation continued to slow.  The price 
index for total personal consumption expenditures 
(PCE) increased 2.6 percent over the 12 months ending 
in December, while core PCE price inflation—which ex-
cludes changes in energy prices and many consumer 
food prices—was 2.9 percent over the same period.  
Both total and core PCE price inflation were well below 
their year-earlier levels.  The trimmed mean measure of 
12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Dallas was 3.3 percent in Decem-
ber, also lower than its level a year earlier.  Survey 
measures of consumers’ short-run inflation expectations 
moved lower in December, while survey measures of 
medium- to longer-term inflation expectations were 
broadly in line with the levels seen in the decade before 
the pandemic. 
According to the advance estimate, real GDP rose at a 
solid pace in the fourth quarter.  Private domestic final 
purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed in-
vestment and which often provides a better signal than 
GDP of underlying economic momentum—also rose 
solidly, though at a slower rate. 
Real exports grew robustly in the fourth quarter of 2023, 
driven in part by a jump in exports of industrial supplies, 
which had declined markedly earlier last year.  By con-
trast, real imports grew at a tepid pace, as gains in im-
ports of capital goods and services were partially offset 
by declines in imports of consumer goods and autos.  All 
told, net exports contributed about ½ percentage point 
to U.S. GDP growth in the fourth quarter after making 
roughly neutral contributions in the preceding two quar-
ters. 
Foreign economic growth remained subdued in the 
fourth quarter. In the advanced foreign economies 
(AFEs), a significant tightening of monetary policy over 
the past two years, the erosion of real household in-
comes from high inflation rates, and the repercussions 
of last year’s energy shock in Europe continued to weigh 
on economic activity.  In China, a property-sector slump 
and depressed consumer confidence continued to weigh 
on domestic demand, with the government rolling out a 
series of policy measures to support growth.  Economic 
activity in Asia excluding China firmed, supported in 
part by rebounding global demand for high-tech prod-
ucts.  
Foreign headline inflation continued to fall.  However, 
the pace of decline had varied across countries as well as 
sectors, with a moderation in goods prices generally hav-
ing outpaced that in services prices.  Most major foreign 
central banks kept their policy rates unchanged over the 
intermeeting period and emphasized the need to main-
tain a stance of policy that is sufficiently restrictive to 
ensure that inflation falls back to their targets. 
Staff Review of the Financial Situation 
Over the intermeeting period, nominal Treasury yields 
declined, and the expected market-implied path for the 
federal funds rate through 2024 shifted downward, as 
market participants viewed monetary policy communi-
cations, on balance, as pointing to notably less restrictive 
policy than expected.  Indicators of broad financial con-
ditions eased over the period, but the staff’s Financial 
Conditions Impulse on Growth index remained restric-
tive.  Similarly, financing conditions for households and 
businesses continued to be moderately restrictive, as 
borrowing costs remained elevated. 
The market-implied path for the federal funds rate 
through 2024 decreased over the intermeeting period.  A 
straight read of federal funds futures rates suggested that 
market participants were placing higher odds on signifi-
cant policy easing in 2024 than they did just before the 
December FOMC meeting.  Beyond 2024, the policy 
rate path implied by overnight index swap quotes de-
clined.  Consistent with the decline in the implied policy 
path, short- and intermediate-term Treasury yields also 
declined notably.  Real yields declined more than nomi-
nal yields, implying somewhat higher measures of infla-
tion compensation.  Market-based measures of interest 
rate uncertainty remained highly elevated by historical 
standards. 
Broad stock price indexes increased, and spreads on in-
vestment- and speculative-grade bonds narrowed mod-
estly over the intermeeting period.  The one-month op-
tion-implied volatility on the S&P 500 increased some-
what over the period but remained low by historical 
standards. 
Movements in foreign markets over the intermeeting pe-
riod were modest, on net, with most foreign asset prices 
and the exchange value of the dollar little changed. Mar-
ket participants generally considered current levels of 
most AFE policy rates to be at the peaks of their respec-
tive tightening cycles. Declines in market-based 
measures of U.S. policy expectations contributed to a 
moderate step-down in short-term yields in most AFEs, 
while longer-term foreign yields were little changed.  Ma-
jor AFE equity indexes increased slightly.  
Conditions in short-term funding markets remained sta-
ble over the intermeeting period, with typical dynamics 
observed surrounding year-end.  Usage of the ON RRP 
facility continued to decline over the period, primarily 
reflecting money market funds reallocating their assets 
to Treasury bills and private-market repurchase agree-
ments, which offered slightly more attractive market 
rates relative to the ON RRP rate.  Banks’ total deposit 
levels were roughly unchanged in the fourth quarter of 
last year, as outflows of core deposits were about offset 
by inflows of large time deposits. 
In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs for most 
businesses, households, and municipalities decreased 
moderately over the intermeeting period but remained 
elevated.  Rates on loans to households declined over 
the intermeeting period but remained relatively high, 
while interest rates on existing credit card accounts were 
little changed.  Interest rates on commercial and indus-
trial (C&I) loans and small business loans increased over 
the intermeeting period.  Yields declined on a broad ar-
ray of fixed-income securities, including investment- and 
speculative-grade corporate bonds, residential and com-
mercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), and munic-
ipal bonds. The declines were largely driven by decreases 
in Treasury yields and, to some extent, by narrower 
spreads. 
Credit continued to be generally available to businesses, 
households, and municipalities.  However, credit availa-
bility for smaller firms continued to tighten.  Total core 
loans at banks increased slightly in the fourth quarter.  
Financing in capital markets continued to be available, 
although issuance in most markets remained at moderate 
levels. 
In the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on 
Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported tight-
ening standards and terms on C&I loans to firms of all 
sizes over the fourth quarter.  Regarding commercial real 
estate (CRE), banks reported tightening standards across 
all loan categories in the fourth quarter.  Banks reported 
that they expected to keep lending standards unchanged 
for C&I loans and to tighten standards for CRE loans 
during 2024.  
Credit in the residential mortgage market remained easily 
available for high-credit-score borrowers who met 
standard conforming loan criteria, and consumer credit 
remained available for most borrowers.  Growth in 
credit card balances was strong in November, though 
SLOOS respondents indicated that standards for credit 
cards tightened in the fourth quarter and were expected 
to tighten further over 2024.  Auto loan balances grew 
modestly in November.  A modest share of banks re-
ported in the SLOOS that they tightened standards on 
auto loans in the fourth quarter and expected to tighten 
them further over 2024. 
The credit quality of businesses and households deterio-
rated slightly but remained broadly solid, as delinquency 
rates in most sectors were relatively low.  Delinquency 
rates on conventional mortgages remained low, while 
delinquency rates on credit cards and auto loans rose in 
the third quarter to levels notably above those just be-
fore the pandemic.  The credit quality of nonfinancial 
firms borrowing in the corporate bond and leveraged 
loan markets remained sound overall.  Aggregate delin-
quency rates on CMBS backed by office properties con-
tinued to be elevated in November.  In the January 
SLOOS, banks reported that credit quality was expected 
to deteriorate somewhat across loan categories over 
2024.  
The staff provided an update on its assessment of the 
stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, 
characterized the system’s financial vulnerabilities as no-
table.  The staff judged that asset valuation pressures re-
mained notable, as valuations across a range of markets 
appeared high relative to fundamentals.  House prices 
increased to the upper end of their historical range, rela-
tive to rents and Treasury yields, though underwriting 
standards remained restrictive.  CRE prices continued to 
decline, especially in the multifamily and office sectors, 
and low levels of transactions in the office sector likely 
indicated that prices had not yet fully reflected the sec-
tor’s weaker fundamentals.  Vulnerabilities associated 
with business and household debt were characterized as 
moderate.  Nonfinancial business debt growth declined, 
and the ability of firms to service their debt remained 
high relative to history. 
Leverage in the financial sector was characterized as no-
table.  In the banking sector, regulatory risk-based capital 
ratios continued to increase and indicated ample loss-
bearing capacity in the banking system.  The fair value 
of banks’ longer-term fixed-rate assets, including loans, 
increased in the fourth quarter as longer-term interest 
rates decreased, though banks remained vulnerable to 
significant increases in longer-term interest rates.  Insur-
ers had been increasing their investments in risky corpo-
rate debt.  Funding risks were also characterized as no-
table.  Uninsured deposits declined in the aggregate but 
remained high for some banks.  Assets in prime money 
market mutual funds and other cash management vehi-
cles continued to increase.  
Staff Economic Outlook 
The economic forecast prepared by the staff for the Jan-
uary meeting was slightly stronger than the December 
projection, as the upward revision to 2023 GDP growth 
implied by incoming data boosted the level of output 
throughout the projection period.  The lagged effects of 
earlier monetary policy actions, through their continued 
contribution to tight financial and credit conditions, 
were still expected to push output growth in 2024 and 
2025 below the staff’s estimate of potential growth; in 
2026, output was expected to rise in line with potential.  
The projected path for the unemployment rate was re-
vised down slightly, reflecting the upward revision to the 
level of output. 
Total and core PCE price inflation were both projected 
to step down in 2024 as demand and supply in product 
and labor markets moved into better alignment.  By 
2026, total and core PCE price inflation were expected 
to be close to 2 percent. 
The staff continued to view the uncertainty around the 
baseline projection as elevated but noted that this uncer-
tainty had diminished substantially over the past year.  
Risks around the inflation forecast were seen as tilted 
slightly to the upside; although inflation had come in 
close to expectations throughout most of 2023, the staff 
placed some weight on the possibility that further pro-
gress in reducing inflation could take longer than ex-
pected.  The risks around the forecast for real activity 
were viewed as skewed to the downside, as any substan-
tial setback in reducing inflation might lead to a tighten-
ing of financial conditions that would slow the pace of 
real activity by more than the staff anticipated in their 
baseline forecast.  In addition, the possibility of a larger-
than-expected erosion of households’ financial positions 
was seen as a downside risk to the projection for real 
activity. 
Participants’ Views on Current Conditions and the 
Economic Outlook 
In their discussion of current economic conditions, par-
ticipants noted that recent indicators suggested that eco-
nomic activity had been expanding at a solid pace.  Real 
GDP growth in the fourth quarter of last year came in 
above 3 percent at an annual rate, below the strong 
growth posted in the third quarter but still above most 
forecasters’ expectations.  Participants observed that the 
unexpected strength in real GDP growth in the fourth 
quarter reflected stronger-than-expected net exports and 
inventory investment, which tend to be volatile and may 
carry little signal for future growth.  Still, consumption 
continued to grow at a solid pace.  In addition to strong 
demand, many participants attributed the recent expan-
sion in economic activity to favorable supply develop-
ments.  Participants noted that the pace of job gains had 
moderated since early last year but remained strong and 
that the unemployment rate had remained low.  Inflation 
had eased over the past year but remained elevated. 
Regarding the economic outlook, participants judged 
that the current stance of monetary policy was restrictive 
and would continue to put downward pressure on eco-
nomic activity and inflation.  Accordingly, they expected 
that supply and demand in product and labor markets 
would continue to move into better balance.  In light of 
the policy restraint in place, along with more favorable 
inflation data amid ongoing improvements in supply 
conditions, participants viewed the risks to achieving the 
Committee’s employment and inflation goals as moving 
into better balance.  However, participants noted that 
the economic outlook was uncertain and that they re-
mained highly attentive to inflation risks. 
In their discussion of inflation, participants observed 
that inflation had eased over the past year but remained 
above the Committee’s 2 percent inflation objective.  
They remained concerned that elevated inflation contin-
ued to harm households, especially those with limited 
means to absorb higher prices.  While the inflation data 
had indicated significant disinflation in the second half 
of last year, participants observed that they would be 
carefully assessing incoming data in judging whether in-
flation was moving down sustainably toward 2 percent.   
Participants noted improvements in both headline and 
core inflation and discussed the underlying components 
of these series.  Although total PCE inflation in Decem-
ber remained above the Committee’s 2 percent objective 
on a 12-month basis, on a 6-month basis, total PCE in-
flation was near 2 percent at an annual rate, and core 
PCE inflation was just below 2 percent.  Participants 
judged that some of the recent improvement in inflation 
reflected idiosyncratic movements in a few series.  Nev-
ertheless, they viewed that there had been significant 
progress recently on inflation returning to the Commit-
tee’s longer-run goal.  Many participants indicated that 
they expected core nonhousing services inflation to 
gradually decline further as the labor market continued 
to move into better balance and wage growth moderated 
further.  Various participants noted that housing services 
inflation was likely to fall further as the deceleration in 
rents on new leases continued to pass through to 
measures of such inflation.  While many participants 
pointed to disinflationary pressures associated with im-
provements in aggregate supply—such as increases in 
the labor force or better productivity growth—a couple 
of participants judged that the downward pressure on 
core goods prices from the normalization of supply 
chains was likely to moderate.  
Participants observed that longer-term inflation expec-
tations had remained well anchored at a level consistent 
with the Committee’s 2 percent inflation objective.  
Measures of near-term inflation expectations had also 
declined recently, in some cases to within their ranges in 
the years before the pandemic.  Some participants 
pointed to reports from contacts that firms could not as 
easily pass on price increases to consumers or were mak-
ing less frequent price adjustments than they had in re-
cent years.   
In their discussion of the household sector, participants 
observed that consumer spending had been stronger 
than expected, supported by low unemployment and 
solid income growth.  A number of participants judged 
that consumption growth was likely to moderate this 
year, as growth in labor income was expected to slow 
and pandemic-related excess savings were expected to 
diminish.  In addition, some participants noted signs that 
the finances of some households—especially those in 
the low- and moderate-income categories—were in-
creasingly coming under pressure, which these partici-
pants saw as a downside risk to the outlook for con-
sumption.  In particular, they pointed to increased usage 
of credit card revolving balances and buy-now-pay-later 
services, as well as increased delinquency rates for some 
types of consumer loans. 
The reports of business contacts cited by participants 
varied across industries and Districts.  In a few Districts, 
contacts reported that the pace of economic activity was 
steady or solid, while in several others, contacts ex-
pressed increased optimism about the economic outlook 
and prospects for investment.  District reports from 
manufacturers were mixed, as some contacts saw in-
creased activity, whereas others saw subdued or weaken-
ing activity.  A couple of participants noted that although 
soft commodity prices and elevated borrowing costs had 
contributed to a decline in farm incomes recently, agri-
cultural land values remained resilient, and delinquencies 
on farm loans continued to be low.  A few participants 
remarked that financing and credit conditions were par-
ticularly challenging for small businesses. 
Participants noted that the labor market remained tight, 
but demand and supply in that market had continued to 
come into better balance.  Payroll growth had remained 
strong in the last few months of 2023 but had slowed 
from its pace seen a year ago, while the unemployment 
rate remained low.  Participants also observed that the 
ratio of job openings to unemployed workers had de-
clined over the past year but still remained somewhat 
above its pre-pandemic level.  Consistent with a reduc-
tion in labor market tightness, business contacts in sev-
eral Districts reported an easing in wage pressures or an 
increased ability to hire and retain workers.  Participants 
mentioned several developments that had boosted labor 
supply last year, including higher labor force participa-
tion, immigration, and an improved job-matching pro-
cess; however, a few participants judged that further in-
creases in labor supply may be limited, pointing, for in-
stance, to the decline in labor force participation in De-
cember.  While labor market conditions were generally 
seen as strong, several participants noted that recent job 
gains were concentrated in a few sectors, which, in their 
view, pointed to downside risks to the outlook for em-
ployment.   
Participants discussed the uncertainty surrounding the 
economic outlook.  As an upside risk to both inflation 
and economic activity, participants noted that momen-
tum in aggregate demand may be stronger than currently 
assessed, especially in light of surprisingly resilient con-
sumer spending last year.  Furthermore, several partici-
pants mentioned the risk that financial conditions were 
or could become less restrictive than appropriate, which 
could add undue momentum to aggregate demand and 
cause progress on inflation to stall.  Participants also 
noted some other sources of upside risks to inflation, in-
cluding possible disruptions to supply chains from geo-
political developments, a potential rebound in core 
goods prices as the effects of supply-side improvements 
dissipate, or the possibility that wage growth remains el-
evated.  Downside risks to inflation and economic activ-
ity noted by participants included geopolitical risks that 
could result in a material pullback in demand, possible 
negative spillovers from lower growth in some foreign 
economies, the risk that financial conditions could re-
main restrictive for too long, or the possibility that a 
weakening of household balance sheets could contribute 
to a greater-than-expected deceleration in consumption.  
A few participants mentioned the possibility that eco-
nomic activity could surprise to the upside and inflation 
to the downside because of more-favorable-than-ex-
pected supply-side developments.   
In the discussion of financial stability, participants ob-
served that risks to the banking system had receded no-
tably since last spring, though they noted vulnerabilities 
at some banks that they assessed warranted monitoring.  
These participants noted potential risks for some banks 
associated with increased funding costs, significant reli-
ance on uninsured deposits, unrealized losses on assets 
resulting from the rise in longer-term interest rates, or 
high CRE exposures.  Participants judged that liquidity 
in the financial system remained more than ample and 
discussed the importance of considering liquidity condi-
tions as the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet continues to 
normalize.  While participants noted that they were not 
seeing any signs of liquidity pressures at banks, several 
participants noted that, as a matter of prudent contin-
gency planning, banks should continue to improve their 
readiness to use the Federal Reserve’s discount window, 
and that the Federal Reserve should continue to improve 
the operational efficiency of the window.  In addition, 
some participants commented on the difficulties associ-
ated with banks relying on some forms of private whole-
sale funding during times of stress.  A few participants 
remarked on the importance of measures aimed at in-
creasing the resilience of the Treasury market.  A few 
participants noted cyber risks and the importance of 
firms being able to recover from cyber events.  A few 
participants also commented on the financial condition 
of low- and moderate-income households who have ex-
hausted their savings, as well as the importance of mon-
itoring data on rising delinquencies on credit cards and 
autos. 
In their consideration of appropriate monetary policy ac-
tions at this meeting, participants noted that recent indi-
cators suggested that economic activity had been ex-
panding at a solid pace.  Job gains had moderated since 
early last year but remained strong, and the unemploy-
ment rate had remained low.  Inflation had eased over 
the past year but remained elevated.  Participants also 
noted that the risks to achieving the Committee’s em-
ployment and inflation goals were moving into better 
balance and that the Committee remained highly atten-
tive to inflation risks.  Participants continued to be reso-
lute in their commitment to bring inflation down to the 
Committee’s 2 percent objective. 
In light of current economic conditions and their impli-
cations for the outlook for economic activity and infla-
tion, as well as the balance of risks, all participants judged 
it appropriate to maintain the target range for the federal 
funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent at this meeting.  All par-
ticipants also judged it appropriate to continue the pro-
cess of reducing the Federal Reserve’s securities hold-
ings, as described in the previously announced Plans for 
Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve’s Balance 
Sheet.  
Participants viewed maintaining the current stance of 
policy as appropriate given the incoming data, which in-
dicated that inflation had continued to move toward the 
Committee’s 2 percent objective and that demand and 
supply in the labor market had continued to move into 
better balance.  Participants commented that maintain-
ing the target range for the federal funds rate at this 
meeting would promote further progress toward the 
Committee’s goals and allow participants to gather addi-
tional information to evaluate this progress. 
In discussing the policy outlook, participants judged that 
the policy rate was likely at its peak for this tightening 
cycle.  They pointed to the decline in inflation seen dur-
ing 2023 and to growing signs of demand and supply 
coming into better balance in product and labor markets 
as informing that view.  Participants generally noted that 
they did not expect it would be appropriate to reduce the 
target range for the federal funds rate until they had 
gained greater confidence that inflation was moving sus-
tainably toward 2 percent.  Many participants remarked 
that the Committee’s past policy actions and ongoing 
improvements in supply conditions were working to-
gether to move supply and demand into better balance.  
Participants noted that the future path of the policy rate 
would depend on incoming data, the evolving outlook, 
and the balance of risks.  Several participants empha-
sized the importance of continuing to communicate 
clearly about the Committee’s data-dependent approach. 
In discussing risk-management considerations that 
could bear on the policy outlook, participants remarked 
that while the risks to achieving the Committee’s em-
ployment and inflation goals were moving into better 
balance, they remained highly attentive to inflation risks.  
In particular, they saw upside risks to inflation as having 
diminished but noted that inflation was still above the 
Committee’s longer-run goal.  Some participants noted 
the risk that progress toward price stability could stall, 
particularly if aggregate demand strengthened or supply-
side healing slowed more than expected.   Participants 
highlighted the uncertainty associated with how long a 
restrictive monetary policy stance would need to be 
maintained.  Most participants noted the risks of moving 
too quickly to ease the stance of policy and emphasized 
the importance of carefully assessing incoming data in 
judging whether inflation is moving down sustainably to 
2 percent.  A couple of participants, however, pointed to 
downside risks to the economy associated with main-
taining an overly restrictive stance for too long.   
Participants observed that the continuing process of re-
ducing the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet 
was an important part of the Committee’s overall ap-
proach to achieving its macroeconomic objectives and 
that balance sheet runoff had so far proceeded smoothly.  
In light of ongoing reductions in usage of the ON RRP 
facility, many participants suggested that it would be ap-
propriate to begin in-depth discussions of balance sheet 
issues at the Committee’s next meeting to guide an even-
tual decision to slow the pace of runoff.  Some partici-
pants remarked that, given the uncertainty surrounding 
estimates of the ample level of reserves, slowing the pace 
of runoff could help smooth the transition to that level 
of reserves or could allow the Committee to continue 
balance sheet runoff for longer.  In addition, a few par-
ticipants noted that the process of balance sheet runoff 
could continue for some time even after the Committee 
begins to reduce the target range for the federal funds 
rate. 
Committee Policy Actions 
In their discussions of monetary policy for this meeting, 
members agreed that economic activity had been ex-
panding at a solid pace.  Job gains had moderated since 
early last year but remained strong, and the unemploy-
ment rate had remained low.  Inflation had eased over 
the past year but remained elevated.  Members judged 
that the risks to achieving the Committee’s employment 
and inflation goals were moving into better balance.  
Members viewed the economic outlook to be uncertain 
and agreed that they remained highly attentive to infla-
tion risks. 
In support of the Committee’s goals to achieve maxi-
mum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent 
over the longer run, members agreed to maintain the tar-
get range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent.  
Members concurred that, in considering any adjustments 
to the target range for the federal funds rate, they would 
carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and 
the balance of risks.  Members agreed that they did not 
expect that it would be appropriate to reduce the target 
range until they have gained greater confidence that in-
flation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent.  In addi-
tion, members agreed to continue to reduce the Federal 
Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities and agency 
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities, as de-
scribed in its previously announced plans.  All members 
affirmed their strong commitment to returning inflation 
to the Committee’s 2 percent objective. 
Members agreed that, in assessing the appropriate stance 
of monetary policy, they would continue to monitor the 
implications of incoming information for the economic 
outlook.  They would be prepared to adjust the stance of 
monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could 
impede the attainment of the Committee’s goals.  Mem-
bers also agreed that their assessments would take into 
account a wide range of information, including readings 
on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and in-
flation expectations, and financial and international de-
velopments. 
Given that the stresses that emerged at some banks early 
last year have subsided, members agreed to remove from 
the statement the reference to the resilience of the U.S. 
banking system as well as to tighter financial and credit 
conditions and their effects on the economic outlook.  
Members also agreed to note the progress made toward 
the 2 percent inflation objective and the resilience of 
economic activity over the past year by stating that the 
Committee “judges that the risks to achieving its em-
ployment and inflation goals are moving into better bal-
ance.”  Regarding considerations relevant for future pol-
icy actions, members agreed, given their assessment of 
the policy rate being likely at its peak for this tightening 
cycle, to remove the reference to “the extent of any ad-
ditional policy firming that may be appropriate to return 
inflation to 2 percent over time,” as was included in the 
December statement.  In its place, they agreed to adopt 
phrasing referencing their “considering any adjustments 
to the target range for the federal funds rate.”  Members 
also agreed that the statement should convey that “the 
Committee will carefully assess incoming data, the 
evolving outlook, and the balance of risks” and that it 
“does not expect it will be appropriate to reduce the tar-
get range until it has gained greater confidence that in-
flation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent.” 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee 
voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the 
SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy 
directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“Effective February 1, 2024, the Federal Open 
Market Committee directs the Desk to: 
• Undertake open market operations as nec-
essary to maintain the federal funds rate in 
a target range of 5¼ to 5½ percent. 
• Conduct standing overnight repurchase 
agreement operations with a minimum bid 
rate of 5.5 percent and with an aggregate 
operation limit of $500 billion. 
• Conduct standing overnight reverse repur-
chase agreement operations at an offering 
rate of 5.3 percent and with a per-counter-
party limit of $160 billion per day. 
• Roll over at auction the amount of principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s hold-
ings of Treasury securities maturing in each 
calendar month that exceeds a cap of 
$60 billion per month.  Redeem Treasury 
coupon securities up to this monthly cap 
and Treasury bills to the extent that coupon 
principal payments are less than the 
monthly cap. 
• Reinvest into agency mortgage-backed se-
curities (MBS) the amount of principal pay-
ments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings 
of agency debt and agency MBS received in 
each calendar month that exceeds a cap of 
$35 billion per month. 
• Allow modest deviations from stated 
amounts for reinvestments, if needed for 
operational reasons. 
• Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settle-
ment of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS 
transactions.” 
The vote also encompassed approval of the statement 
below for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“Recent indicators suggest that economic activ-
ity has been expanding at a solid pace.  Job gains 
have moderated since early last year but remain 
strong, and the unemployment rate has re-
mained low.  Inflation has eased over the past 
year but remains elevated. 
The Committee seeks to achieve maximum em-
ployment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent 
over the longer run.  The Committee judges that 
the risks to achieving its employment and infla-
tion goals are moving into better balance.  The 
economic outlook is uncertain, and the Com-
mittee remains highly attentive to inflation risks. 
In support of its goals, the Committee decided 
to maintain the target range for the federal 
funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent.  In considering 
any adjustments to the target range for the fed-
eral funds rate, the Committee will carefully as-
sess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and 
the balance of risks.  The Committee does not 
expect it will be appropriate to reduce the target 
range until it has gained greater confidence that 
inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 per-
cent.  In addition, the Committee will continue 
reducing its holdings of Treasury securities and 
agency debt and agency mortgage-backed secu-
rities, as described in its previously announced 
plans.  The Committee is strongly committed to 
returning inflation to its 2 percent objective. 
In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary 
policy, the Committee will continue to monitor 
the implications of incoming information for 
the economic outlook.  The Committee would 
be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary 
policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could 
impede the attainment of the Committee’s 
goals.  The Committee’s assessments will take 
into account a wide range of information, in-
cluding readings on labor market conditions, in-
flation pressures and inflation expectations, and 
financial and international developments.” 
Voting for this action: Jerome H. Powell, John C. 
Williams, Thomas I. Barkin, Michael S. Barr, Raphael W. 
Bostic, Michelle W. Bowman, Lisa D. Cook, Mary C. 
Daly, Philip N. Jefferson, Adriana D. Kugler, Loretta J. 
Mester, and Christopher J. Waller. 
Voting against this action: None. 
Consistent with the Committee’s decision to leave the 
target range for the federal funds rate unchanged, the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
voted unanimously to maintain the interest rate paid on 
reserve balances at 5.4 percent, effective Febru-
ary 1, 2024.  The Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System voted unanimously to approve the estab-
lishment of the primary credit rate at the existing level of 
5.5 percent, effective February 1, 2024. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee 
would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, March 19–
20, 2024.  The meeting adjourned at 10:25 a.m. on Janu-
ary 31, 2024. 
Notation Vote 
By notation vote completed on January 2, 2024, the 
Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the 
Committee meeting held on December 12–13, 2023. 
Joshua Gallin 
Secretary
