
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee 
January 24–25, 2012
A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
held in the offices of the Board of Governors in Wash-
ington, D.C., on Tuesday, January 24, 2012, at       
10:00 a.m., and continued on Wednesday, January 25, 
2012, at 8:30 a.m. 
PRESENT:  
Ben Bernanke, Chairman 
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman 
Elizabeth Duke 
Jeffrey M. Lacker 
Dennis P. Lockhart 
Sandra Pianalto 
Sarah Bloom Raskin 
Daniel K. Tarullo 
John C. Williams 
Janet L. Yellen 
James Bullard, Christine Cumming, Charles L. 
Evans, Esther L. George, and Eric Rosengren, 
Alternate Members of the Federal Open Mar-
ket Committee 
Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, and 
Charles I. Plosser, Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Dallas, Minneapolis, and 
Philadelphia, respectively 
William B. English, Secretary and Economist 
Deborah J. Danker, Deputy Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Assistant Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Scott G. Alvarez, General Counsel 
Thomas C. Baxter, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
David W. Wilcox, Economist 
David Altig, Thomas A. Connors, Michael P. 
Leahy, William Nelson, Simon Potter, David 
Reifschneider, Glenn D. Rudebusch, and Wil-
liam Wascher, Associate Economists 
Brian Sack, Manager, System Open Market Ac-
count 
Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Banking 
Supervision and Regulation, Board of Gover-
nors 
Nellie Liang, Director, Office of Financial Stability 
Policy and Research, Board of Governors 
Jon W. Faust and Andrew T. Levin, Special Advi-
sors to the Board, Office of Board Members, 
Board of Governors 
James A. Clouse, Deputy Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of 
Board Members, Board of Governors 
Daniel E. Sichel, Senior Associate Director, Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics, Board of Gov-
ernors 
Ellen E. Meade, Stephen A. Meyer, and Joyce K. 
Zickler, Senior Advisers, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors; Lawrence Slif-
man, Senior Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics, Board of Governors 
Eric M. Engen¹ and Daniel M. Covitz, Associate 
Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, 
Board of Governors; Trevor A. Reeve, Asso-
ciate Director, Division of International 
Finance, Board of Governors 
Joshua Gallin,¹ Deputy Associate Director, Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics, Board of Gov-
ernors 
David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
Chiara Scotti, Senior Economist, Division of In-
ternational Finance, Board of Governors; 
Louise Sheiner, Senior Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
¹ Attended Tuesday’s session only. 
Page 1
Lyle Kumasaka, Senior Financial Analyst, Division 
of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
Kurt F. Lewis, Economist, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors 
Randall A. Williams, Records Management Analyst, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Gov-
ernors 
Kenneth C. Montgomery, First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Jeff Fuhrer, Loretta J. Mester, Harvey Rosenblum, 
and Daniel G. Sullivan, Executive Vice Presi-
dents, Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Phil-
adelphia, Dallas, and Chicago, respectively 
Craig S. Hakkio, Mark E. Schweitzer, Christopher 
J. Waller, and Kei-Mu Yi, Senior Vice Presi-
dents, Federal Reserve Banks of Kansas City, 
Cleveland, St. Louis, and Minneapolis, respec-
tively 
John Duca² and Andrew Haughwout,² Vice Presi-
dents, Federal Reserve Banks of Dallas and 
New York, respectively 
Julie Ann Remache, Assistant Vice President, Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York 
Robert L. Hetzel, Senior Economist, Federal Re-
serve Bank of Richmond 
Daniel Cooper,² Economist, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston 
² Attended the discussion of the role of financial condi-
tions in economic recovery. 
Role of Financial Conditions in Economic Recov-
ery:  Lending and Leverage 
Staff summarized research projects being conducted 
across the Federal Reserve System on the effects of 
changes in lending practices and household leverage on 
consumer spending in recent years.  These projects 
provided a range of views regarding the size and impor-
tance of such effects.  An analysis employing aggregate 
time-series data indicated that changes in income, 
household assets and liabilities, and credit availability 
can largely account for the movements in aggregate 
consumption seen since the mid-1990s; this finding 
suggests that changes in credit conditions may have 
been an important factor driving changes in the saving 
rate in recent years.  A second analysis used data on 
borrowing, debt repayments, and other credit factors 
for individual borrowers; this study found that move-
ments in leverage—resulting from voluntary loan re-
payments and from loan charge-offs—have had a sub-
stantial effect on the cash flow of many households 
over time, and thus presumably on their spending.  
However, a third study, which employed household-
level data, suggested that movements in consumption 
before, during, and after the recession were driven pri-
marily by employment, income, and net worth, leaving 
little variation to be explained by changes in leverage 
and credit availability. 
In their discussion following the staff presentation, 
several meeting participants considered possible rea-
sons for the differing results of the various analyses; 
participants also noted contrasts between these findings 
and those reported in some academic research.  Several 
possible explanations for the varying conclusions were 
discussed, including differences across studies in model 
specification and data, as well as differences in the de-
finition of deleveraging.  In addition, it was noted that 
data limitations make it difficult to reach firm conclu-
sions on this issue, at least at this time.  Participants 
also considered the possible influence on aggregate 
consumer spending of changes in real interest rates and 
the distribution of income, the potential for policy ac-
tions to affect the fundamental factors driving house-
hold saving, and whether households’ spending be- 
havior is being affected by concerns about the future of 
Social Security.   
Annual Organizational Matters 
In the agenda for this meeting, it was reported that ad-
vices of the election of the following members and al-
ternate members of the Federal Open Market Commit-
tee for a term beginning January 24, 2012, had been 
received and that these individuals had executed their 
oaths of office.  
The elected members and alternate members were as 
follows:  
William C. Dudley, President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with Christine Cumming, First 
Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, as alternate.  
Jeffrey M. Lacker, President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond, with Eric Rosengren, President of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, as alternate.  
Sandra Pianalto, President of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland, with Charles L. Evans, President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, as alternate.  
Dennis P. Lockhart, President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta, with James Bullard, President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, as alternate.  
John C. Williams, President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, with Esther L. George, Presi-
dent of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, as 
alternate.  
By unanimous vote, the following officers of the Fed-
eral Open Market Committee were selected to serve 
until the selection of their successors at the first regu-
larly scheduled meeting of the Committee in 2013:  
Ben Bernanke         Chairman 
William C. Dudley        Vice Chairman 
William B. English        Secretary and Economist 
Deborah J. Danker        Deputy Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke        Assistant Secretary 
David W. Skidmore        Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith        Assistant Secretary 
Scott G. Alvarez        General Counsel 
Thomas C. Baxter       Deputy General Counsel 
Richard M. Ashton        Assistant General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin        Economist 
David W. Wilcox        Economist 
David Altig 
Thomas A. Connors 
Michael P. Leahy 
William Nelson 
Simon Potter 
David Reifschneider 
Glenn D. Rudebusch 
Mark S. Sniderman 
William Wascher 
John A. Weinberg       Associate Economists 
By unanimous vote, the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York was selected to execute transactions for the Sys-
tem Open Market Account.  
By unanimous vote, Brian Sack was selected to serve at 
the pleasure of the Committee as Manager, System 
Open Market Account, on the understanding that his 
selection was subject to being satisfactory to the Feder-
al Reserve Bank of New York.  
Secretary’s note: Advice subsequently was 
received that the selection of Mr. Sack as 
Manager was satisfactory to the Board of Di-
rectors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York. 
By unanimous vote, the Authorization for Domestic 
Open Market Operations was amended to allow lend-
ing of securities on longer than an overnight basis to 
accommodate weekend, holiday, and similar trading 
conventions.  The Guidelines for the Conduct of Sys-
tem Open Market Operations in Federal-Agency Issues 
remained suspended.  
AUTHORIZATION FOR DOMESTIC OPEN 
MARKET OPERATIONS 
(Amended January 24, 2012) 
1. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes 
and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, to 
the extent necessary to carry out the most recent do-
mestic policy directive adopted at a meeting of the 
Committee: 
A. To buy or sell U.S. Government securities, in-
cluding securities of the Federal Financing Bank, and 
securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guar-
anteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of 
the United States in the open market, from or to se-
curities dealers and foreign and international accounts 
maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, on a cash, regular, or deferred delivery basis, 
for the System Open Market Account at market pric-
es, and, for such Account, to exchange maturing U.S. 
Government and Federal agency securities with the 
Treasury or the individual agencies or to allow them 
to mature without replacement; 
B. To buy or sell in the open market U.S. Gov-
ernment securities, and securities that are direct obli-
gations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and in-
terest by, any agency of the United States, for the Sys-
tem Open Market Account under agreements to re-
sell or repurchase such securities or obligations (in-
cluding such transactions as are commonly referred 
to as repo and reverse repo transactions) in 65 busi-
ness days or less, at rates that, unless otherwise ex-
pressly authorized by the Committee, shall be deter-
mined by competitive bidding, after applying reason-
able limitations on the volume of agreements with 
individual counterparties. 
2. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open 
market operations, the Federal Open Market Commit-
tee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
to use agents in agency MBS-related transactions. 
3. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open 
market operations, the Federal Open Market Commit-
tee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
to lend on an overnight basis U.S. Government securi-
ties and securities that are direct obligations of any 
agency of the United States, held in the System Open 
Market Account, to dealers at rates that shall be deter-
mined by competitive bidding.  The Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York shall set a minimum lending fee 
consistent with the objectives of the program and apply 
reasonable limitations on the total amount of a specific 
issue that may be auctioned and on the amount of se-
curities that each dealer may borrow.  The Federal Re-
serve Bank of New York may reject bids which could 
facilitate a dealer’s ability to control a single issue as 
determined solely by the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York may 
lend securities on longer than an overnight basis to ac-
commodate weekend, holiday, and similar trading con-
ventions. 
4. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open 
market operations, while assisting in the provision of 
short-term investments for foreign and international 
accounts maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York and accounts maintained at the Federal Re-
serve Bank of New York as fiscal agent of the United 
States pursuant to Section 15 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, the Federal Open Market Committee authorizes 
and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York:  
A. for System Open Market Account, to sell U.S. 
Government securities, and securities that are direct 
obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and 
interest by, any agency of the United States, to such 
accounts on the bases set forth in paragraph 1.A un-
der agreements providing for the resale by such ac-
counts of those securities in 65 business days or less 
on terms comparable to those available on such 
transactions in the market; and  
B. for New York Bank account, when appropriate, 
to undertake with dealers, subject to the conditions 
imposed on purchases and sales of securities in para-
graph l.B, repurchase agreements in U.S. Govern-
ment securities, and securities that are direct obliga-
tions of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and inter-
est by, any agency of the United States, and to ar-
range corresponding sale and repurchase agreements 
between its own account and such foreign, interna-
tional, and fiscal agency accounts maintained at the 
Bank. 
Transactions undertaken with such accounts under the 
provisions of this paragraph may provide for a service 
fee when appropriate. 
5. In the execution of the Committee’s decision re-
garding policy during any intermeeting period, the 
Committee authorizes and directs the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, upon the instruction of the Chair-
man of the Committee, to adjust somewhat in excep-
tional circumstances the degree of pressure on reserve 
positions and hence the intended federal funds rate and 
to take actions that result in material changes in the 
composition and size of the assets in the System Open 
Market Account other than those anticipated by the 
Committee at its most recent meeting.  Any such ad-
justment shall be made in the context of the Commit-
tee’s discussion and decision at its most recent meeting 
and the Committee’s long-run objectives for price sta-
bility and sustainable economic growth, and shall be 
based on economic, financial, and monetary develop-
ments during the intermeeting period.  Consistent with 
Committee practice, the Chairman, if feasible, will con-
sult with the Committee before making any adjustment. 
The Committee voted to reaffirm the Authorization for 
Foreign Currency Operations, the Foreign Currency 
Directive, and the Procedural Instructions with Respect 
to Foreign Currency Operations as shown below.  The 
votes to reaffirm these documents included approval of 
the System’s warehousing agreement with the U.S. 
Treasury.  Mr. Lacker dissented in the votes on the Au-
thorization for Foreign Currency Operations and the 
Foreign Currency Directive to indicate his opposition 
to foreign currency intervention by the Federal Re-
serve.  In his view, such intervention would be ineffec-
tive if it did not also signal a shift in domestic monetary 
policy; and if it did signal such a shift, it could poten-
tially compromise the Federal Reserve’s monetary poli-
cy independence.   
AUTHORIZATION FOR FOR-
EIGN CURRENCY OPERATIONS 
(Reaffirmed January 24, 2012) 
1. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes 
and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, for 
System Open Market Account, to the extent necessary 
to carry out the Committee's foreign currency directive 
and express authorizations by the Committee pursuant 
thereto, and in conformity with such procedural in-
structions as the Committee may issue from time to 
time: 
A. To purchase and sell the following foreign cur-
rencies in the form of cable transfers through spot or 
forward transactions on the open market at home 
and abroad, including transactions with the U.S. 
Treasury, with the U.S. Exchange Stabilization Fund 
established by Section 10 of the Gold Reserve Act of 
1934, with foreign monetary authorities, with the 
Bank for International Settlements, and with other in-
ternational financial institutions: 
Australian dollars 
Brazilian reais 
Canadian dollars 
Danish kroner 
euro 
Japanese yen 
Korean won 
Mexican pesos 
New Zealand dollars 
Norwegian kroner 
Pounds sterling 
Singapore dollars 
Swedish kronor 
Swiss francs 
B. To hold balances of, and to have outstanding 
forward contracts to receive or to deliver, the foreign 
currencies listed in paragraph A above. 
C. To draw foreign currencies and to permit for-
eign banks to draw dollars under the reciprocal cur-
rency arrangements listed in paragraph 2 below, pro-
vided that drawings by either party to any such ar-
rangement shall be fully liquidated within 12 months 
after any amount outstanding at that time was first 
drawn, unless the Committee, because of exceptional 
circumstances, specifically authorizes a delay. 
D. To maintain an overall open position in all for-
eign currencies not exceeding $25.0 billion. For this 
purpose, the overall open position in all foreign cur-
rencies is defined as the sum (disregarding signs) of 
net positions in individual currencies, excluding 
changes in dollar value due to foreign exchange rate 
movements and interest accruals.  The net position in 
a single foreign currency is defined as holdings of 
balances in that currency, plus outstanding contracts 
for future receipt, minus outstanding contracts for fu-
ture delivery of that currency, i.e., as the sum of these 
elements with due regard to sign. 
2. The Federal Open Market Committee directs the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York to maintain reci-
procal currency arrangements (“swap” arrangements) 
for the System Open Market Account for periods up to 
a maximum of 12 months with the following foreign 
banks, which are among those designated by the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under Sec-
tion 214.5 of Regulation N, Relations with Foreign 
Banks and Bankers, and with the approval of the 
Committee to renew such arrangements on maturity: 
Foreign bank Amount of arrangement 
(millions of dollars equivalent) 
Bank of Canada  2,000 
Bank of Mexico  3,000 
Any changes in the terms of existing swap arrange-
ments, and the proposed terms of any new arrange-
ments that may be authorized, shall be referred for re-
view and approval to the Committee. 
3. All transactions in foreign currencies undertaken 
under paragraph 1.A. above shall, unless otherwise ex-
pressly authorized by the Committee, be at prevailing 
market rates.  For the purpose of providing an invest-
ment return on System holdings of foreign currencies 
or for the purpose of adjusting interest rates paid or 
received in connection with swap drawings, transac-
tions with foreign central banks may be undertaken at 
non-market exchange rates. 
4. It shall be the normal practice to arrange with for-
eign central banks for the coordination of foreign cur-
rency transactions.  In making operating arrangements 
with foreign central banks on System holdings of for-
eign currencies, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
shall not commit itself to maintain any specific balance, 
unless authorized by the Federal Open Market Com-
mittee.  Any agreements or understandings concerning 
the administration of the accounts maintained by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York with the foreign 
banks designated by the Board of Governors under 
Section 214.5 of Regulation N shall be referred for re-
view and approval to the Committee. 
5. Foreign currency holdings shall be invested to 
ensure that adequate liquidity is maintained to meet 
anticipated needs and so that each currency portfolio 
shall generally have an average duration of no more 
than 18 months (calculated as Macaulay duration).  
Such investments may include buying or selling outright 
obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and 
interest by, a foreign government or agency thereof; 
buying such securities under agreements for repurchase 
of such securities; selling such securities under agree-
ments for the resale of such securities; and holding var-
ious time and other deposit accounts at foreign institu-
tions.  In addition, when appropriate in connection 
with arrangements to provide investment facilities for 
foreign currency holdings, U.S. Government securities 
may be purchased from foreign central banks under 
agreements for repurchase of such securities within    
30 calendar days. 
6. All operations undertaken pursuant to the preced-
ing paragraphs shall be reported promptly to the For-
eign Currency Subcommittee and the Committee.  The 
Foreign Currency Subcommittee consists of the Chair-
man and Vice Chairman of the Committee, the Vice 
Chairman of the Board of Governors, and such other 
member of the Board as the Chairman may designate 
(or in the absence of members of the Board serving on 
the Subcommittee, other Board members designated by 
the Chairman as alternates, and in the absence of the 
Vice Chairman of the Committee, the Vice Chairman’s 
alternate).  Meetings of the Subcommittee shall be 
called at the request of any member, or at the request of 
the Manager, System Open Market Account (“Manag-
er”), for the purposes of reviewing recent or contem-
plated operations and of consulting with the Manager 
on other matters relating to the Manager’s responsibili-
ties.  At the request of any member of the Subcommit-
tee, questions arising from such reviews and consulta-
tions shall be referred for determination to the Federal 
Open Market Committee. 
7. The Chairman is authorized: 
A. With the approval of the Committee, to enter 
into any needed agreement or understanding with the 
Secretary of the Treasury about the division of re-
sponsibility for foreign currency operations between 
the System and the Treasury; 
B. To keep the Secretary of the Treasury fully ad-
vised concerning System foreign currency operations, 
and to consult with the Secretary on policy matters 
relating to foreign currency operations; 
C. From time to time, to transmit appropriate re-
ports and information to the National Advisory 
Council on International Monetary and Financial Pol-
icies. 
8. Staff officers of the Committee are authorized to 
transmit pertinent information on System foreign cur-
rency operations to appropriate officials of the Treasury 
Department. 
9. All Federal Reserve Banks shall participate in the 
foreign currency operations for System Account in ac-
cordance with paragraph 3G(1) of the Board of Gover-
nors’ Statement of Procedure with Respect to Foreign 
Relationships of Federal Reserve Banks dated January 
1, 1944. 
FOREIGN CURRENCY DIRECTIVE 
(Reaffirmed January 24, 2012) 
1. System operations in foreign currencies shall gen-
erally be directed at countering disorderly market condi-
tions, provided that market exchange rates for the U.S. 
dollar reflect actions and behavior consistent with IMF 
Article IV, Section 1. 
2. To achieve this end the System shall: 
A. Undertake spot and forward purchases and sales 
of foreign exchange. 
B. Maintain reciprocal currency (“swap”) arrange-
ments with selected foreign central banks. 
C. Cooperate in other respects with central banks 
of other countries and with international monetary 
institutions. 
3. Transactions may also be undertaken: 
A. To adjust System balances in light of probable 
future needs for currencies. 
B. To provide means for meeting System and 
Treasury commitments in particular currencies, and 
to facilitate operations of the Exchange Stabilization 
Fund. 
C. For such other purposes as may be expressly au-
thorized by the Committee. 
4. System foreign currency operations shall be con-
ducted: 
A. In close and continuous consultation and coop-
eration with the United States Treasury; 
B. In cooperation, as appropriate, with foreign 
monetary authorities; and 
C. In a manner consistent with the obligations of 
the United States in the International Monetary 
Fund regarding exchange arrangements under 
IMF Article IV. 
PROCEDURAL INSTRUCTIONS WITH RESPECT 
TO FOREIGN CURRENCY OPERATIONS 
(Reaffirmed January 24, 2012) 
In conducting operations pursuant to the authorization 
and direction of the Federal Open Market Committee 
as set forth in the Authorization for Foreign Currency 
Operations and the Foreign Currency Directive, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, through the Man-
ager, System Open Market Account (“Manager”), shall 
be guided by the following procedural understandings 
with respect to consultations and clearances with the 
Committee, the Foreign Currency Subcommittee, and 
the Chairman of the Committee, unless otherwise di-
rected by the Committee.  All operations undertaken 
pursuant to such clearances shall be reported promptly 
to the Committee. 
1. The Manager shall clear with the Subcommittee 
(or with the Chairman, if the Chairman believes that 
consultation with the Subcommittee is not feasible in 
the time available): 
A. Any operation that would result in a change in 
the System’s overall open position in foreign curren-
cies exceeding $300 million on any day or $600 mil-
lion since the most recent regular meeting of the 
Committee. 
B. Any operation that would result in a change on 
any day in the System’s net position in a single for-
eign currency exceeding $150 million, or $300 million 
when the operation is associated with repayment of 
swap drawings. 
C. Any operation that might generate a substantial 
volume of trading in a particular currency by the Sys-
tem, even though the change in the System’s net po-
sition in that currency might be less than the limits 
specified in 1.B. 
D. Any swap drawing proposed by a foreign bank 
not exceeding the larger of (i) $200 million or          
(ii) 15 percent of the size of the swap arrangement. 
2. The Manager shall clear with the Committee (or 
with the Subcommittee, if the Subcommittee believes 
that consultation with the full Committee is not feasible 
in the time available, or with the Chairman, if the 
Chairman believes that consultation with the Subcom-
mittee is not feasible in the time available): 
A. Any operation that would result in a change in 
the System’s overall open position in foreign curren-
cies exceeding $1.5 billion since the most recent regu-
lar meeting of the Committee. 
B. Any swap drawing proposed by a foreign bank 
exceeding the larger of (i) $200 million or (ii) 15 per-
cent of the size of the swap arrangement. 
3. The Manager shall also consult with the Subcom-
mittee or the Chairman about proposed swap drawings 
by the System and about any operations that are not of 
a routine character. 
By unanimous vote, the Committee reaffirmed its Pro-
gram for Security of FOMC Information.  
Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary 
Policy Strategy 
Following the Committee’s disposition of organization-
al matters, participants considered a revised draft of a 
statement of principles regarding the FOMC’s longer-
run goals and monetary policy strategy.  The revisions 
reflected discussion of an earlier draft during the 
Committee’s December meeting as well as comments 
received over the intermeeting period.  The Chairman 
noted that the proposed statement did not represent a 
change in the Committee’s policy approach.  Instead, 
the statement was intended to help enhance the trans-
parency, accountability, and effectiveness of monetary 
policy. 
In presenting the draft statement on behalf of the sub-
committee on communications, Governor Yellen 
pointed out several key elements.  First, the statement 
expresses the FOMC’s commitment to explain its poli-
cy decisions as clearly as possible.  Second, the state-
ment specifies a numerical inflation goal in a context 
that firmly underscores the Federal Reserve’s commit-
ment to fostering both parts of its dual mandate.  
Third, the statement is intended to serve as an over-
arching set of principles that would be reaffirmed dur-
ing the Committee’s organizational meeting each year, 
and the bar for amending the statement would be high. 
All participants but one supported adopting the revised 
statement of principles regarding longer-run goals and 
monetary policy strategy, which is reproduced below. 
“Following careful deliberations at its recent 
meetings, the Federal Open Market Commit-
tee (FOMC) has reached broad agreement 
on the following principles regarding its 
longer-run goals and monetary policy strate-
gy.  The Committee intends to reaffirm these 
principles and to make adjustments as ap-
propriate at its annual organizational meeting 
each January. 
The FOMC is firmly committed to fulfilling 
its statutory mandate from the Congress of 
promoting maximum employment, stable 
prices, and moderate long-term interest rates.  
The Committee seeks to explain its monetary 
policy decisions to the public as clearly as 
possible.  Such clarity facilitates well-
informed decisionmaking by households and 
businesses, reduces economic and financial 
uncertainty, increases the effectiveness of 
monetary policy, and enhances transparency 
and accountability, which are essential in a 
democratic society.  
Inflation, employment, and long-term inter-
est rates fluctuate over time in response to 
economic and financial disturbances.  More-
over, monetary policy actions tend to influ-
ence economic activity and prices with a lag.  
Therefore, the Committee's policy decisions 
reflect its longer-run goals, its medium-term 
outlook, and its assessments of the balance 
of risks, including risks to the financial sys-
tem that could impede the attainment of the 
Committee’s goals.  
The inflation rate over the longer run is pri-
marily determined by monetary policy, and 
hence the Committee has the ability to speci-
fy a longer-run goal for inflation.  The 
Committee judges that inflation at the rate of 
2 percent, as measured by the annual change 
in the price index for personal consumption 
expenditures, is most consistent over the 
longer run with the Federal Reserve’s statu-
tory mandate.  Communicating this inflation 
goal clearly to the public helps keep longer-
term inflation expectations firmly anchored, 
thereby fostering price stability and moderate 
long-term interest rates and enhancing the 
Committee’s ability to promote maximum 
employment in the face of significant eco-
nomic disturbances.  
The maximum level of employment is largely 
determined by nonmonetary factors that af-
fect the structure and dynamics of the labor 
market.  These factors may change over time 
and may not be directly measurable.  Conse-
quently, it would not be appropriate to speci-
fy a fixed goal for employment; rather, the 
Committee’s policy decisions must be in-
formed by assessments of the maximum lev-
el of employment, recognizing that such as-
sessments are necessarily uncertain and sub-
ject to revision.  The Committee considers a 
wide range of indicators in making these as-
sessments.  Information about Committee 
participants’ estimates of the longer-run 
normal rates of output growth and unem-
ployment is published four times per year in 
the FOMC’s Summary of Economic Projec-
tions.  For example, in the most recent pro-
jections, FOMC participants’ estimates of the 
longer-run normal rate of unemployment 
had a central tendency of 5.2 percent to     
6.0 percent, roughly unchanged from last 
January but substantially higher than the cor-
responding interval several years earlier.  
In setting monetary policy, the Committee 
seeks to mitigate deviations of inflation from 
its longer-run goal and deviations of em-
ployment from the Committee’s assessments 
of its maximum level.  These objectives are 
generally complementary.  However, under 
circumstances in which the Committee 
judges that the objectives are not comple-
mentary, it follows a balanced approach in 
promoting them, taking into account the 
magnitude of the deviations and the poten-
tially different time horizons over which em-
ployment and inflation are projected to re-
turn to levels judged consistent with its 
mandate.” 
All FOMC members voted to adopt this statement ex-
cept Mr. Tarullo, who abstained because he questioned 
the ultimate usefulness of the statement in promoting 
better communication of the Committee’s policy strat-
egy. 
Developments in Financial Markets and the Fed-
eral Reserve’s Balance Sheet 
The Manager of the System Open Market Account 
(SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and 
foreign financial markets during the period since the 
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on De-
cember 13, 2011. He also reported on System open 
market operations, including the ongoing reinvestment 
into agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities 
(MBS) of principal payments received on SOMA hold-
ings of agency debt and agency-guaranteed MBS as well 
as the operations related to the maturity extension pro-
gram authorized at the September 20–21 FOMC meet-
ing.  By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the 
Desk’s domestic transactions over the intermeeting 
period. There were no intervention operations in for-
eign currencies for the System’s account over the in-
termeeting period. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation 
The information reviewed at the January 24–25 meet-
ing indicated that U.S. economic activity continued to 
expand moderately, while global growth appeared to be 
slowing.  Overall conditions in the labor market im-
proved further, although the unemployment rate re-
mained elevated.  Consumer price inflation was sub-
dued, and measures of long-run inflation expectations 
remained stable. 
The unemployment rate declined to 8.5 percent in De-
cember; however, both long-duration unemployment 
and the share of workers employed part time for eco-
nomic reasons were still quite high.  Private nonfarm 
employment continued to expand moderately, while 
state and local government employment decreased at a 
slower pace than earlier in 2011.  Some indicators of 
firms’ hiring plans improved.  Initial claims for unem-
ployment insurance edged lower, on balance, since the 
middle of December but remained at a level consistent 
with only modest employment growth. 
Industrial production expanded in November and De-
cember, on net, and the rate of manufacturing capacity 
utilization moved up.  Motor vehicle assemblies were 
scheduled to increase, on balance, in the first quarter of 
2012, and broader indicators of manufacturing activity, 
such as the diffusion indexes of new orders from the 
national and regional manufacturing surveys, were at 
levels that suggested moderate growth in production in 
the near term. 
Real personal consumption expenditures continued to 
rise moderately in November, boosted by spending for 
motor vehicles and other durables, although house-
holds’ real disposable income edged down.  In Decem-
ber, however, nominal retail sales excluding purchases 
at motor vehicle and parts outlets declined, and sales of 
motor vehicles also dropped slightly.  Consumer senti-
ment improved further in early January but was still at a 
low level. 
Activity in the housing market improved a bit in recent 
months but continued to be held down by the large 
overhang of foreclosed and distressed properties, un-
certainty about future home prices, and tight underwrit-
ing standards for mortgage loans.  Starts and permits 
for new single-family homes rose in November and 
December but remained only a little above the de-
pressed levels seen earlier in 2011.  Sales of new and 
existing homes also firmed somewhat in recent months, 
but home prices continued to trend lower. 
Real business expenditures on equipment and software 
appeared to have decelerated in the fourth quarter.  
Nominal orders and shipments of nondefense capital 
goods excluding aircraft declined in November for a 
second month.  Forward-looking indicators of firms’ 
equipment spending were mixed:  Some survey meas-
ures of business conditions and capital spending plans 
improved, but corporate bond spreads continued to be 
elevated and analysts’ earnings expectations for pro-
ducers of capital goods remained muted.  Nominal 
business spending for nonresidential construction was 
unchanged in November and continued to be held 
back by high vacancy rates and tight credit conditions 
for construction loans.  Inventories in most industries 
looked to be well aligned with sales, though motor ve-
hicle stocks remained lean. 
Monthly data for federal government spending pointed 
to a significant decline in real defense purchases in the 
fourth quarter.  Real state and local government pur-
chases seemed to be decreasing at a slower rate than 
during earlier quarters, as the pace of reductions in pay-
rolls eased and construction spending leveled off in 
recent months. 
The U.S. international trade deficit widened in Novem-
ber as exports fell and imports rose.  Exports declined 
in most major categories, with the exception of con-
sumer goods.  Exports of industrial supplies and mate-
rials were especially weak, though the weakness was 
concentrated in a few particularly volatile categories 
and reflected, in part, declines in prices.  The rise in 
imports largely reflected higher imports of petroleum 
products and automotive products, which more than 
offset decreases in most other broad categories of im-
ports. 
Overall U.S. consumer prices as measured by the price 
index for personal consumption expenditures were un-
changed in November; as measured by the consumer 
price index, they were flat in December as well.  Con-
sumer energy prices decreased in recent months, while 
increases in consumer food prices slowed.  Consumer 
prices excluding food and energy rose modestly in the 
past two months.  Near-term inflation expectations 
from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan 
Surveys of Consumers were essentially unchanged in 
early January, and longer-term inflation expectations 
remained stable. 
Available measures of labor compensation indicated 
that wage gains continued to be modest.  Average 
hourly earnings for all employees posted a moderate 
gain in December, and their rate of increase from       
12 months earlier remained slow. 
Recent indicators of foreign economic activity pointed 
to a substantial deceleration in the fourth quarter of 
2011.  In the euro area, retail sales and industrial pro-
duction were below their third-quarter averages in both 
October and November.  Economic activity in much 
of Asia was disrupted by the effects of severe flooding 
in Thailand, which affected supply chains in the region.  
Twelve-month inflation rates receded in several ad-
vanced and emerging market economies, and most cen-
tral banks maintained policy rates or eased further 
while continuing to provide significant liquidity sup-
port. 
Staff Review of the Financial Situation 
Developments in Europe continued to be a central fo-
cus for investors over the intermeeting period as con-
cerns persisted about the prospects for a durable solu-
tion to the European fiscal and financial difficulties.  
Nevertheless, market sentiment toward Europe ap-
peared to brighten a bit, and U.S. economic data releas-
es were somewhat better than investors expected, lead-
ing to some improvement in conditions in financial 
markets. 
On balance over the period, the expected path for the 
federal funds rate implied by money market futures 
quotes was essentially unchanged.  Yields on nominal 
Treasury securities rose slightly at intermediate and 
longer maturities.  Indicators of inflation compensation 
derived from nominal and inflation-protected Treasury 
securities edged up. 
U.S. financial institutions reportedly retained ready 
access to short-term funding markets; there were no 
significant dislocations in those markets over year-end.  
Dollar funding pressures for European banks eased 
slightly.  While spreads of the London interbank of-
fered rate (Libor) over overnight index swap (OIS) 
rates of the same maturity remained elevated, rates for 
unsecured overnight commercial paper (CP) issued by 
some entities with European parents declined substan-
tially following the lowering of charges on the central 
bank liquidity swap lines with the Federal Reserve, the 
implementation by the European Central Bank (ECB) 
of its first three-year longer-term refinancing operation 
(LTRO), and the passage of year-end.  In secured fund-
ing markets, spreads of overnight asset-backed CP rates 
over overnight unsecured CP rates also declined, and 
the general collateral repurchase agreement, or repo, 
market continued to function normally. 
Indicators of financial stress eased somewhat over the 
intermeeting period, although they generally continued 
to be elevated.  Market-based measures of possible  
spillovers from troubles at particular financial firms to 
the broader financial system were below their levels in 
the fall but remained above their levels prior to the fi-
nancial crisis.  Initial fourth-quarter earnings reports for 
large bank holding companies were mixed relative to 
market expectations, with poor capital market revenues 
weighing on the profits of institutions with significant 
trading operations.  Although credit default swap 
(CDS) spreads of most large domestic bank holding 
companies remained elevated, they moved lower over 
the intermeeting period, and some institutions took 
advantage of easing credit conditions by issuing signifi-
cant quantities of new long-term debt.  Equity prices of 
most large domestic financial institutions outperformed 
the broader market, on net, over the intermeeting pe-
riod.  Nonetheless, the ratio of the market value of 
bank equity to its book value remained low for some 
large financial firms.  Responses to the December Sen-
ior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing 
Terms indicate that, since August, securities dealers 
have devoted increased time and attention to the man-
agement of concentrated credit exposures to other fi-
nancial intermediaries, pointing to increased concern 
over counterparty risk. 
Broad equity price indexes increased more than 6 per-
cent, on net, over the intermeeting period, and option-
implied equity volatility declined notably.  Yields on 
investment-grade corporate bonds declined a bit rela-
tive to those on comparable-maturity Treasury securi-
ties, while spreads of speculative-grade corporate bond 
yields over yields on Treasury securities decreased no-
ticeably.  Indicators of the credit quality of nonfinancial 
corporations continued to be solid.  Conditions in the 
secondary market for leveraged loans were stable, with 
median bid prices about unchanged.  Financing condi-
tions for large nonfinancial businesses generally re-
mained favorable.  Bond issuance by investment-grade 
nonfinancial corporations was robust, though below its 
elevated November pace, while issuance by lower-rated 
firms slowed, likely owing in part to seasonal factors.  
Issuance of leveraged loans was relatively modest in the 
fourth quarter compared with its rapid pace earlier in 
the year.  Share repurchases and cash-financed mergers 
by nonfinancial firms maintained their recent strength 
in the third quarter, leaving net equity issuance deeply 
negative. 
Financing conditions for commercial real estate (CRE) 
remained strained, and issuance of commercial mort-
gage-backed securities was very light in the fourth quar-
ter.  Responses to the January Senior Loan Officer 
Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) 
indicated that bank CRE lending standards continued 
to be extraordinarily tight, but some banks reported 
having reduced the spreads of loan rates over their cost 
of funds (compared with a year ago) for the first time 
since 2007.  Delinquency rates on commercial mort-
gages remained elevated, and CRE price indexes con-
tinued to fluctuate around levels substantially lower 
than their 2007 peaks. 
Conditions in residential mortgage markets remained 
extremely tight.  Although mortgage interest rates and 
yields on current-coupon agency MBS edged down to 
near their historical lows, mortgage refinancing activity 
continued to be subdued amid tight underwriting stan-
dards and low levels of home equity.  Mortgage delin-
quency rates, while improving gradually, remained ele-
vated relative to pre-crisis norms, and house prices 
continued to move lower.  The price of subprime resi-
dential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), as meas-
ured by the ABX index, rose over the intermeeting pe-
riod, consistent with similar changes for other higher-
risk fixed-income securities.  RMBS prices were sup-
ported by reports of the sale of a significant portion of 
the RMBS held in the Maiden Lane II portfolio. 
On the whole, conditions in consumer credit markets 
showed signs of improvement.  Consumer credit in-
creased in November, while delinquency rates on credit 
card loans in securitized pools held steady in Novem-
ber at historically low levels.  Data on credit card solici-
tations and from responses to the January SLOOS sug-
gested that lending standards on consumer loans con-
tinued to ease modestly. 
Financing conditions for state and local governments 
were mixed.  Gross long-term issuance of municipal 
bonds remained robust in December, with continued 
strength in new issuance for capital projects.  CDS 
spreads for states inched down further over the inter-
meeting period, and yields on long-term general obliga-
tion municipal bonds fell notably.  However, down-
grades of municipal bonds continued to substantially 
outpace upgrades in the third quarter. 
In the fourth quarter, bank credit continued to increase 
as banks accumulated agency MBS and growth of total 
loans picked up.  Core loans—the sum of commercial 
and industrial (C&I) loans, real estate loans, and con-
sumer loans—expanded modestly.  Growth of C&I 
loans at domestic banks was robust but was partly off-
set by weakness at U.S. branches and agencies of Eu-
ropean banks.  Noncore loans rose sharply, on net, 
reflecting in part a surge in such loans at the U.S. 
branches and agencies of European institutions.  Re-
sponses to the January SLOOS indicated that, in the 
aggregate, loan demand strengthened slightly and lend-
ing standards eased a bit further in the fourth quarter. 
M2 increased at an annual rate of 5¼ percent in De-
cember, likely reflecting continued demand for safe and 
liquid assets given investor concerns over develop-
ments in Europe.  In addition, demand deposits rose 
rapidly around year-end, reportedly because lenders in 
short-term funding markets chose to leave substantial 
balances with banks over the turn of the year.  The 
monetary base increased in December, largely reflecting 
growth in currency.  Reserve balances were roughly 
unchanged over the intermeeting period. 
International financial markets seemed somewhat calm-
er over the intermeeting period than they had been in 
previous months, and the funding conditions faced by 
most European financial institutions and sovereigns 
eased somewhat in the wake of the ECB’s first three-
year LTRO.  Short-term euro interest rates moved low-
er as euro-area institutions drew a substantial amount 
of three-year funds from the ECB, and dollar funding 
costs for European banks also appeared to decline.  
Spreads of yields on Italian and Spanish government 
debt over those on German bunds narrowed over the 
intermeeting period, with spreads on shorter-term debt 
falling particularly noticeably.  The apparent improve-
ment in market sentiment was not diminished by news 
late in the period that Standard & Poor’s lowered its 
long-term sovereign bond ratings of nine euro-area 
countries and the European Financial Stability Facility 
or by news that negotiations over the terms of a volun-
tary private-sector debt exchange for Greece had not 
yet reached a conclusion. 
The staff’s broad index of the foreign exchange value 
of the dollar declined slightly over the intermeeting 
period.  While the dollar fell against most other curren-
cies, it appreciated against the euro.  Foreign stock 
markets generally ended the period higher, with head-
line equity indexes in Europe and the emerging market 
economies up substantially, although emerging market 
equity and bond funds continued to experience out-
flows on net during the period. 
Staff Economic Outlook 
In the economic forecast prepared for the January 
FOMC meeting, the staff’s projection for the growth in 
real gross domestic product (GDP) in the near term 
was revised down a bit.  The revision reflected the ap-
parent decline in federal defense purchases and the 
somewhat shallower trajectory for consumer spending 
in recent months; the recent data on the labor market, 
production, and other spending categories were, on 
balance, roughly in line with the staff’s expectations at 
the time of the previous forecast.  The medium-term 
projection for real GDP growth in the January forecast 
was little changed from the one presented in Decem-
ber.  Although the developments in Europe were ex-
pected to continue to weigh on the U.S. economy dur-
ing the first half of this year, the staff still projected that 
real GDP growth would accelerate gradually in 2012 
and 2013, supported by accommodative monetary poli-
cy, further improvements in credit availability, and ris-
ing consumer and business sentiment.  The increase in 
real GDP was expected to be sufficient to reduce the 
slack in product and labor markets only slowly over the 
projection period, and the unemployment rate was an-
ticipated to still be high at the end of 2013. 
The staff’s forecast for inflation was essentially un-
changed from the projection prepared for the Decem-
ber FOMC meeting.  With stable long-run inflation 
expectations and substantial slack in labor and product 
markets anticipated to persist over the forecast period, 
the staff continued to project that inflation would re-
main subdued in 2012 and 2013. 
Participants’ Views on Current Conditions and the 
Economic Outlook 
In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, all partici-
pants—the five members of the Board of Governors 
and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks—
provided projections of output growth, the unemploy-
ment rate, and inflation for each year from 2011 
through 2014 and over the longer run.  Longer-run 
projections represent each participant’s assessment of 
the rate to which each variable would be expected to 
converge, over time, under appropriate monetary policy 
and in the absence of further shocks to the economy.  
Starting with this meeting, participants also provided 
assessments of the path for the target federal funds rate 
that they view as appropriate and compatible with their 
individual economic projections.  Participants’ econom-
ic projections and policy assessments are described in 
more detail in the Summary of Economic Projections, 
which is attached as an addendum to these minutes. 
In their discussion of the economic situation and out-
look, meeting participants agreed that the information 
received since the Committee met in December sug-
gested that the economy had been expanding mod-
erately, notwithstanding some slowing in growth 
abroad.  In general, labor market indicators pointed to 
some further improvement in labor market conditions, 
but progress was gradual and the unemployment rate 
remained elevated.  Household spending had continued 
to advance at a moderate pace despite still-sluggish 
growth in real disposable income, but growth in busi-
ness fixed investment had slowed.  The housing sector 
remained depressed, with very low levels of activity; 
there were, however, signs of improvement in some 
local housing markets.  Many participants observed that 
some indicators bearing on the economy’s recent per-
formance had shown greater-than-expected improve-
ment, but a number also noted less favorable data; one 
noted that growth in final sales appeared to have 
slowed in the fourth quarter of last year even as output 
growth picked up.  Inflation had been subdued in re-
cent months, there was little evidence of wage or cost 
pressures, and longer-term inflation expectations had 
remained stable. 
With respect to the economic outlook, participants 
generally anticipated that economic growth over com-
ing quarters would be modest and, consequently, ex-
pected that the unemployment rate would decline only 
gradually.  A number of factors were seen as likely to 
restrain the pace of economic expansion, including the 
slowdown in economic activity abroad, fiscal tightening 
in the United States, the weak housing market, further 
household deleveraging, high levels of uncertainty 
among households and businesses, and the possibility 
of increased volatility in financial markets until the fis-
cal and banking issues in the euro area are more fully 
addressed.  Participants continued to expect these 
headwinds to ease over time and so anticipated that the 
recovery would gradually gain strength.  However, par-
ticipants agreed that strains in global financial markets 
continued to pose significant downside risks to the 
economic outlook.  With unemployment expected to 
remain elevated, and with longer-term inflation expec-
tations stable, almost all participants expected inflation 
to remain subdued in coming quarters—that is, to run 
at or below the 2 percent level that the Committee 
judges most consistent with its statutory mandate over 
the longer run. 
In discussing the household sector, meeting partici-
pants noted that consumer spending had grown mod-
erately in recent months.  Consumer sentiment had 
improved since last summer, though its level was still 
quite low.  Business contacts in the retail sector re-
ported generally satisfactory holiday sales, but high-end 
retailers saw strong gains while lower-end retailers saw 
mixed results.  Contacts also reported widespread dis-
counting.  Major express delivery companies indicated 
very high volumes at year-end and into January.  Sever-
al participants observed that consumer spending had 
outpaced growth in personal disposable income last 
year, and a few noted that households remained pessi-
mistic about their income prospects and uncertain 
about the economic outlook.  These observations sug-
gested that growth of consumer spending might slow.  
However, a few other participants pointed to increasing 
job gains in recent months as contributing to an im-
proving trend in real incomes and thus supporting con-
tinued moderate growth in consumer spending. 
Reports from business contacts indicated that activity 
in the manufacturing, energy, and agricultural sectors 
continued to advance in recent months.  Businesses 
generally reported that they remained cautious regard-
ing capital spending and hiring; some contacts cited 
uncertainty about the economic outlook and about fis-
cal and regulatory policy.  Nonetheless, business con-
tacts had become somewhat more optimistic, with 
more contacts reporting plans to expand capacity and 
payrolls.  Some companies indicated that they planned 
to relocate some production from abroad to the United 
States.  A few participants noted that national and Dis-
trict surveys of firms’ capital spending plans suggested 
that the recent slowing in business fixed investment 
was partly temporary.  The combination of high energy 
prices and availability of new drilling technologies was 
promoting strong growth in investment outlays in the 
energy sector. 
Participants generally saw the housing sector as still 
depressed.  The level of activity remained quite weak, 
house prices were continuing to decline in most areas, 
and the overhang of foreclosed and distressed proper-
ties was still substantial.  Nonetheless, there were some 
small signs of improvement.  The inventory of unsold 
homes had declined, though in part because the fore-
closure process had slowed, and issuance of permits for 
new single-family homes had risen from its lows.  One 
participant again noted reports from some homebuild-
ers suggesting that land prices were edging up and that 
financing was available from nonbank sources.  Anoth-
er participant cited reports from business contacts indi-
cating that credit standards in mortgage lending were 
becoming somewhat less stringent.  Yet another noted 
that recent changes to the Home Affordable Refinance 
Program, which were intended to streamline the refi-
nancing of performing high-loan-to-value mortgages, 
were showing some success. 
Participants generally expected that growth of U.S. ex-
ports was likely to be held back in the coming year by 
slower global economic growth.  In particular, fiscal 
austerity programs in Europe and stresses in the Euro-
pean banking system seemed likely to restrain econom-
ic growth there, perhaps with some spillover to growth 
in Asia.  One participant noted that shipping rates had 
declined of late, suggesting that a slowdown in interna-
tional trade might be under way. 
Participants agreed that recent indicators showed some 
further gradual improvement in overall labor market 
conditions:  Payroll employment had increased some-
what more rapidly in recent months, new claims for 
unemployment insurance had trended lower, and the 
unemployment rate had declined.  Some business con-
tacts indicated that they planned to do more hiring this 
year than last.  However, unemployment—including 
longer-term unemployment—remained elevated, and 
the numbers of discouraged workers and people work-
ing part time because they could not find full-time 
work were also still quite high.  Participants expressed a 
range of views on the current extent of slack in the la-
bor market.  Very high long-duration unemployment 
might indicate a mismatch between unemployed work-
ers’ skills and employers’ needs, suggesting that a sub-
stantial part of the increase in unemployment since the 
beginning of the recession reflected factors other than a 
shortfall in aggregate demand.  In contrast, the quite 
modest increases in labor compensation of late, and the 
large number of workers reporting that they are work-
ing part time because their employers have cut their 
hours, suggested that underutilization of labor was still 
substantial.  A few participants noted that the recent 
decline in the unemployment rate reflected declining 
labor force participation in large part, and judged that 
the decline in the participation rate was likely to be re-
versed, at least to some extent, as the recovery contin-
ues and labor demand picks up. 
Meeting participants observed that financial conditions 
improved and financial market stresses eased somewhat 
during the intermeeting period:  Equity prices rose, 
volatility declined, and bank lending conditions ap-
peared to improve.  Participants noted that the ECB’s 
three-year refinancing operation had apparently contri-
buted to improved conditions in European sovereign 
debt markets.  Nonetheless, participants expected that 
global financial markets would remain focused on the 
evolving situation in Europe and anticipated that con-
tinued policy efforts would be necessary in Europe to 
fully address the area’s fiscal and financial problems.  
U.S. banks reported increases in commercial lending as 
some European lenders pulled back, and some banking 
contacts indicated that creditworthy companies’ de-
mand for credit had increased.  A number of partici-
pants noted further improvement in the availability of 
loans to businesses, with a couple of them indicating 
that small business contacts had reported increased 
availability of bank credit.  However, a few other partic-
ipants commented that small businesses in their Dis-
tricts continued to face difficulty in obtaining bank 
loans. 
Participants observed that longer-run inflation expecta-
tions were still well anchored and also noted that infla-
tion had been subdued in recent months, partly reflect-
ing a decline in commodity prices and an easing of 
supply chain disruptions since mid-2011.  In addition, 
labor compensation had risen only slowly and produc-
tivity continued to increase.  One participant reported 
that a survey of business inflation expectations indi-
cated firms were anticipating increases in unit costs on 
the order of 1¾ percent this year, just a bit higher than 
last year.  Looking farther ahead, participants generally 
judged that the modest expansion in economic activity 
that they were projecting would be consistent with a 
gradual reduction in the current wide margins of slack 
in labor and product markets and with subdued infla-
tion going forward.  Some remained concerned that, 
with the persistence of considerable resource slack, 
inflation might continue to drift down and run below 
mandate-consistent levels for some time.  However, a 
couple of participants were concerned that inflation 
could rise as the recovery continued and argued that 
providing additional monetary accommodation, or even 
maintaining the current highly accommodative stance 
of monetary policy over the medium run, would erode 
the stability of inflation expectations and risk higher 
inflation. 
Committee participants discussed possible changes to 
the forward guidance that has been included in the 
Committee’s recent post-meeting statements.  Many 
participants thought it important to explore means for 
better communicating policymakers’ thinking about 
future monetary policy and its relationship to evolving 
economic conditions.  A couple of participants ex-
pressed concern that some press reports had misinter-
preted the Committee’s use of a date in its forward 
guidance as a commitment about its future policy deci-
sions.  Several participants thought it would be helpful 
to provide more information about the economic con-
ditions that would be likely to warrant maintaining the 
current target range for the federal funds rate, perhaps 
by providing numerical thresholds for the unemploy-
ment and inflation rates.  Different opinions were ex-
pressed regarding the appropriate values of such    
thresholds, reflecting different assessments of the path 
for the federal funds rate that would likely be appropri-
ate to foster the Committee’s longer-run goals.  How-
ever, some participants worried that such thresholds 
would not accurately or effectively convey the Commit-
tee’s forward-looking approach to monetary policy and 
thus would pose difficult communications issues, or 
that movements in the unemployment rate, by them-
selves, would be an unreliable measure of progress to-
ward maximum employment.  Several participants pro-
posed either dropping or greatly simplifying the for-
ward guidance in the Committee’s statement, arguing 
that information about participants’ assessments of the 
appropriate future level of the federal funds rate, which 
would henceforth be contained in the Summary of 
Economic Projections (SEP), made it unnecessary to 
include forward guidance in the post-meeting state-
ment.  However, several other participants emphasized 
that the information regarding the federal funds rate in 
the SEP could not substitute for a formal decision of 
the members of the FOMC.  Participants agreed to 
continue exploring approaches for providing the public 
with greater clarity about the linkages between the eco-
nomic outlook and the Committee’s monetary policy 
decisions. 
Committee Policy Action 
Members viewed the information on U.S. economic 
activity received over the intermeeting period as sug-
gesting that the economy had been expanding mod-
erately and generally agreed that the economic outlook 
had not changed greatly since they met in December.  
While overall labor market conditions had improved 
somewhat further and unemployment had declined in 
recent months, almost all members viewed the unem-
ployment rate as still elevated relative to levels that they 
saw as consistent with the Committee’s mandate over 
the longer run.  Available data indicated some slowing 
in the pace of economic growth in Europe and in some 
emerging market economies, pointing to reduced 
growth of U.S. exports going forward.  With the econ-
omy facing continuing headwinds from the recent fi-
nancial crisis and with growth slowing in a number of 
U.S. export markets, members generally expected a 
modest pace of economic growth over coming quar-
ters, with the unemployment rate declining only gradu-
ally.  Strains in global financial markets continued to 
pose significant downside risks to economic activity.  
Inflation had been subdued in recent months, and 
longer-term inflation expectations remained stable.  
Members generally anticipated that inflation over com-
ing quarters would run at or below the 2 percent level 
that the Committee judges most consistent with its 
mandate. 
In their discussion of monetary policy for the period 
ahead, members agreed that it would be appropriate to 
maintain the existing highly accommodative stance of 
monetary policy.  In particular, they agreed to keep the 
target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼  per-
cent, to continue the program of extending the average 
maturity of the Federal Reserve’s holdings of securities 
as announced in September, and to retain the existing 
policies regarding the reinvestment of principal pay-
ments from Federal Reserve holdings of securities. 
With respect to the statement to be released following 
the meeting, members agreed that only relatively small 
modifications to the first two paragraphs were needed 
to reflect the incoming information and the modest 
changes to the economic outlook implied by the recent 
data.  In light of the economic outlook, almost all 
members agreed to indicate that the Committee expects 
to maintain a highly accommodative stance for mone-
tary policy and currently anticipates that economic 
conditions—including low rates of resource utilization 
and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium 
run—are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for 
the federal funds rate at least through late 2014, longer 
than had been indicated in recent FOMC statements.  
In particular, several members said they anticipated that 
unemployment would still be well above their estimates 
of its longer-term normal rate, and inflation would be 
at or below the Committee’s longer-run objective, in 
late 2014.  It was noted that extending the horizon of 
the Committee’s forward guidance would help provide 
more accommodative financial conditions by shifting 
downward investors’ expectations regarding the future 
path of the target federal funds rate.  Some members 
underscored the conditional nature of the Committee’s 
forward guidance and noted that it would be subject to 
revision in response to significant changes in the eco-
nomic outlook. 
The Committee also stated that it is prepared to adjust 
the size and composition of its securities holdings as 
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery 
in a context of price stability.  A few members ob-
served that, in their judgment, current and prospective 
economic conditions—including elevated unemploy-
ment and inflation at or below the Committee’s objec-
tive—could warrant the initiation of additional securi-
ties purchases before long.  Other members indicated 
that such policy action could become necessary if the 
economy lost momentum or if inflation seemed likely 
to remain below its mandate-consistent rate of 2 per-
cent over the medium run.  In contrast, one member 
judged that maintaining the current degree of policy 
accommodation beyond the near term would likely be 
inappropriate; that member anticipated that a preemp-
tive tightening of monetary policy would be necessary 
before the end of 2014 to keep inflation close to 2 per-
cent. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee 
voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to ex-
ecute transactions in the System Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive: 
“The Federal Open Market Committee seeks 
monetary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable 
growth in output.  To further its long-run 
objectives, the Committee seeks conditions 
in reserve markets consistent with federal 
funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  
The Committee directs the Desk to continue 
the maturity extension program it began in 
September to purchase, by the end of June 
2012, Treasury securities with remaining ma-
turities of approximately 6 years to 30 years 
with a total face value of $400 billion, and to 
sell Treasury securities with remaining matur-
ities of 3 years or less with a total face value 
of $400 billion.  The Committee also directs 
the Desk to maintain its existing policies of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities into 
new issues and of reinvesting principal pay-
ments on all agency debt and agency mort-
gage-backed securities in the System Open 
Market Account in agency mortgage-backed 
securities in order to maintain the total face 
value of domestic securities at approximately 
$2.6 trillion.  The Committee directs the 
Desk to engage in dollar roll transactions as 
necessary to facilitate settlement of the Fed-
eral Reserve’s agency MBS transactions.  The 
System Open Market Account Manager and 
the Secretary will keep the Committee in-
formed of ongoing developments regarding 
the System’s balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee’s 
objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability.” 
The vote encompassed approval of the statement be-
low to be released at 12:30 p.m.: 
“Information received since the Federal 
Open Market Committee met in December 
suggests that the economy has been expand-
ing moderately, notwithstanding some slow-
ing in global growth.  While indicators point 
to some further improvement in overall la-
bor market conditions, the unemployment 
rate remains elevated.  Household spending 
has continued to advance, but growth in 
business fixed investment has slowed, and 
the housing sector remains depressed.  Infla-
tion has been subdued in recent months, and 
longer-term inflation expectations have re-
mained stable.  
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the 
Committee seeks to foster maximum em-
ployment and price stability.  The Committee 
expects economic growth over coming quar-
ters to be modest and consequently antic-
ipates that the unemployment rate will de-
cline only gradually toward levels that the 
Committee judges to be consistent with its 
dual mandate.  Strains in global financial 
markets continue to pose significant down-
side risks to the economic outlook.  The 
Committee also anticipates that over coming 
quarters, inflation will run at levels at or be-
low those consistent with the Committee’s 
dual mandate.  
To support a stronger economic recovery 
and to help ensure that inflation, over time, 
is at levels consistent with the dual mandate, 
the Committee expects to maintain a highly 
accommodative stance for monetary policy.  
In particular, the Committee decided today 
to keep the target range for the federal funds 
rate at 0 to ¼ percent and currently antic-
ipates that economic conditions—including 
low rates of resource utilization and a sub-
dued outlook for inflation over the medium 
run—are likely to warrant exceptionally low 
levels for the federal funds rate at least 
through late 2014.  
The Committee also decided to continue its 
program to extend the average maturity of its 
holdings of securities as announced in Sep-
tember.  The Committee is maintaining its 
existing policies of reinvesting principal 
payments from its holdings of agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in 
agency mortgage-backed securities and of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities at 
auction.  The Committee will regularly re-
view the size and composition of its securi-
ties holdings and is prepared to adjust those 
holdings as appropriate to promote a strong-
er economic recovery in a context of price 
stability.” 
Voting for this action:  Ben Bernanke, William C. 
Dudley, Elizabeth Duke, Dennis P. Lockhart, Sandra 
Pianalto, Sarah Bloom Raskin, Daniel K. Tarullo, John 
C. Williams, and Janet L. Yellen. 
Voting against this action:  Jeffrey M. Lacker. 
Mr. Lacker dissented because he preferred to omit the 
description of the time period over which economic 
conditions were likely to warrant exceptionally low le-
vels of the federal funds rate.  He expected that a 
preemptive tightening of monetary policy would be 
necessary to prevent an increase in inflation projections 
or inflation expectations prior to the end of 2014.  
More broadly, given the inclusion of FOMC partici-
pants’ projections for the federal funds rate target in 
the Summary of Economic Projections, he saw no need 
to provide additional forward guidance in the Commit-
tee statement. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee 
would be held on Tuesday, March 13, 2012.  The meet-
ing adjourned at 11:30 a.m. on January 25, 2012. 
Notation Vote 
By notation vote completed on December 30, 2011, the 
Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the 
FOMC meeting held on December 13, 2011. 
William B. English 
Secretary 
Summary of Economic Projections
In conjunction with the January 24–25, 2012, Federal 
Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, the mem-
bers of the Board of Governors and the presidents of 
the Federal Reserve Banks, all of whom participate in 
the deliberations of the FOMC, submitted projections 
for growth of real output, the unemployment rate, and 
inflation for the years 2012 to 2014 and over the longer 
run.  The economic projections were based on infor-
mation available at the time of the meeting and partici-
pants’ individual assumptions about factors likely to 
affect economic outcomes, including their assessments 
of appropriate monetary policy.  Starting with the Janu-
ary meeting, participants also submitted their assess-
ments of the path for the target federal funds rate that 
they viewed as appropriate and compatible with their 
individual economic projections.  Longer-run projec-
tions represent each participant’s assessment of the rate 
to which each variable would be expected to converge 
over time under appropriate monetary policy and in the 
absence of further shocks.  “Appropriate monetary 
policy” is defined as the future path of policy that par-
ticipants deem most likely to foster outcomes for eco-
nomic activity and inflation that best satisfy their indi-
vidual interpretation of the Federal Reserve’s objectives 
of maximum employment and stable prices. 
As depicted in figure 1, FOMC participants projected 
continued economic expansion over the 2012–14 pe-
riod, with real gross domestic product (GDP) rising at 
a modest rate this year and then strengthening further 
through 2014.  Participants generally anticipated only a 
small decline in the unemployment rate this year.  In 
2013 and 2014, the pace of the expansion was pro-
jected to exceed participants’ estimates of the longer-
run sustainable rate of increase in real GDP by enough 
to result in a gradual further decline in the unemploy-
ment rate.  However, at the end of 2014, participants 
generally expected that the unemployment rate would 
still be well above their estimates of the longer-run 
normal unemployment rate that they currently view as 
consistent with the FOMC’s statutory mandate for 
promoting maximum employment and price stability.  
Participants viewed the upward pressures on inflation 
in 2011 from factors such as supply chain disruptions 
and rising commodity prices as having waned, and they 
anticipated that inflation would fall back in 2012.  Over 
the projection period, most participants expected infla-
tion, as measured by the annual change in the price 
index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), to 
be at or below the FOMC’s objective of 2 percent that 
was expressed in the Committee’s statement of longer-
run goals and policy strategy.  Core inflation was pro-
jected to run at about the same rate as overall inflation. 
As indicated in table 1, relative to their previous projec-
tions in November 2011, participants made small 
downward revisions to their expectations for the rate of 
increase in real GDP in 2012 and 2013, but they did 
Table 1.   Economic projections of Federal Reserve Board members and Federal Reserve Bank presidents, January 2012 
Percent    
Variable 
Central tendency1 Range2 
2012 2013 2014 Longer run 2012 2013 2014 Longer run 
Change in real GDP. . . . . . 2.2 to 2.7 2.8 to 3.2 3.3 to 4.0 2.3 to 2.6 2.1 to 3.0 2.4 to 3.8 2.8 to 4.3 2.2 to 3.0 
November projection. . 2.5 to 2.9 3.0 to 3.5 3.0 to 3.9 2.4 to 2.7 2.3 to 3.5 2.7 to 4.0 2.7 to 4.5 2.2 to 3.0 
Unemployment rate. . . . . . 8.2 to 8.5 7.4 to 8.1 6.7 to 7.6 5.2 to 6.0 7.8 to 8.6 7.0 to 8.2 6.3 to 7.7 5.0 to 6.0 
November projection. . 8.5 to 8.7 7.8 to 8.2 6.8 to 7.7 5.2 to 6.0 8.1 to 8.9 7.5 to 8.4 6.5 to 8.0 5.0 to 6.0 
PCE inflation. . . . . . . . . . .  1.4 to 1.8 1.4 to 2.0 1.6 to 2.0 2.0 1.3 to 2.5 1.4 to 2.3 1.5 to 2.1 2.0 
November projection. . 1.4 to 2.0 1.5 to 2.0 1.5 to 2.0 1.7 to 2.0 1.4 to 2.8 1.4 to 2.5 1.5 to 2.4 1.5 to 2.0 
Core PCE inflation3. . . . . . 1.5 to 1.8 1.5 to 2.0 1.6 to 2.0 1.3 to 2.0 1.4 to 2.0 1.4 to 2.0 
November projection. . 1.5 to 2.0 1.4 to 1.9 1.5 to 2.0 1.3 to 2.1 1.4 to 2.1 1.4 to 2.2 
      NOTE:  Projections of change in real gross domestic product (GDP) and projections for both measures of inflation are from the fourth quarter of the pre-
vious year to the fourth quarter of the year indicated.  PCE inflation and core PCE inflation are the percentage rates of change in, respectively, the price index 
for personal consumption expenditures (PCE) and the price index for PCE excluding food and energy.  Projections for the unemployment rate are for the aver-
age civilian unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of the year indicated.  Each participant’s projections are based on his or her assessment of appropriate 
monetary policy.  Longer-run projections represent each participant’s assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge under ap-
propriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy.  The November projections were made in conjunction with the meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee on November 1–2, 2011. 
   1.  The central tendency excludes the three highest and three lowest projections for each variable in each year. 
   2.  The range for a variable in a given year includes all participants’ projections, from lowest to highest, for that variable in that year. 
   3.  Longer-run projections for core PCE inflation are not collected. 
Page 1
3
2
1
+
0
1
2
3
4
Percent
Figure 1. Central tendencies and ranges of economic projections, 2012–14 and over the longer run  
Change in real GDP
Range of projections
Actual
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Longer
run
Central tendency of projections
5
6
7
8
9
Percent
Unemployment rate
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Longer
run
1
2
3
Percent
PCE inflation
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Longer
run
1
2
3
Percent
Core PCE inflation
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
NOTE: Definitions of variables are in the notes to table 1. The data for the actual values of the variables are annual. The data for the change in real
GDP, PCE inflation, and core PCE inflation shown for 2011 incorporate the advance estimate of GDP for the fourth quarter of 2011, which the Bureau
of Economic Analysis released on January 27, 2012. This information was not available to FOMC meeting participants at the time of their meeting. 
not materially alter their projections for a noticeably 
stronger pace of expansion by 2014.  With the unem-
ployment rate having declined in recent months by 
more than participants had anticipated in the previous 
Summary of Economic Projections (SEP), they gener-
ally lowered their forecasts for the level of the unem-
ployment rate over the next two years.  Participants’ 
expectations for both the longer-run rate of increase in 
real GDP and the longer-run unemployment rate were 
little changed from November.  They did not signifi-
cantly alter their forecasts for the rate of inflation over 
the next three years.  However, in light of the 2 percent 
inflation that is the objective included in the statement 
of longer-run goals and policy strategy adopted at the 
January meeting, the range and central tendency of 
their projections of longer-run inflation were all equal 
to 2 percent. 
As shown in figure 2, most participants judged that 
highly accommodative monetary policy was likely to be 
warranted over coming years to promote a stronger 
economic expansion in the context of price stability.  In 
particular, with the unemployment rate projected to 
remain elevated over the projection period and infla-
tion expected to be subdued, six participants antic-
ipated that, under appropriate monetary policy, the first 
increase in the target federal funds rate would occur 
after 2014, and five expected policy firming to com-
mence during 2014 (the upper panel).  The remaining 
six participants judged that raising the federal funds 
rate sooner would be required to forestall inflationary 
pressures or avoid distortions in the financial system.  
As indicated in the lower panel, all of the individual 
assessments of the appropriate target federal funds rate 
over the next several years were below the longer-run 
level of the federal funds rate, and 11 participants 
placed the target federal funds rate at 1 percent or low-
er at the end of 2014.  Most participants indicated that 
they expected that the normalization of the Federal 
Reserve’s balance sheet should occur in a way consis-
tent with the principles agreed on at the June 2011 
meeting of the FOMC, with the timing of adjustments 
dependent on the expected date of the first policy tight-
ening.  A few participants judged that, given their cur-
rent assessments of the economic outlook, appropriate 
policy would include additional asset purchases in 2012, 
and one assumed an early ending of the maturity exten-
sion program. 
A sizable majority of participants continued to judge 
the level of uncertainty associated with their projections 
for real activity and the unemployment rate as unusual-
ly high relative to historical norms.  Many also attached 
a greater-than-normal level of uncertainty to their fore-
casts for inflation, but, compared with the November 
SEP, two additional participants viewed uncertainty as 
broadly similar to longer-run norms.  As in November, 
many participants saw downside risks attending their 
forecasts of real GDP growth and upside risks to their 
forecasts of the unemployment rate; most participants 
viewed the risks to their inflation projections as broadly 
balanced. 
The Outlook for Economic Activity 
The central tendency of participants’ forecasts for the 
change in real GDP in 2012 was 2.2 to 2.7 percent.  
This forecast for 2012, while slightly lower than the 
projection prepared in November, would represent a 
pickup in output growth from 2011 to a rate close to its 
longer-run trend.  Participants stated that the economic 
information received since November showed contin-
ued gradual improvement in the pace of economic ac-
tivity during the second half of 2011, as the influence 
of the temporary factors that damped activity in the 
first half of the year subsided.  Consumer spending 
increased at a moderate rate, exports expanded solidly, 
and business investment rose further.  Recently, con-
sumers and businesses appeared to become somewhat 
more optimistic about the outlook.  Financial condi-
tions for domestic nonfinancial businesses were gener-
ally favorable, and conditions in consumer credit mar-
kets showed signs of improvement. 
However, a number of factors suggested that the pace 
of the expansion would continue to be restrained.  Al-
though some indicators of activity in the housing sector 
improved slightly at the end of 2011, new homebuild-
ing and sales remained at depressed levels, house prices 
were still falling, and mortgage credit remained tight.  
Households’ real disposable income rose only modestly 
through late 2011.  In addition, federal spending con-
tracted toward year-end, and the restraining effects of 
fiscal consolidation appeared likely to be greater this 
year than anticipated at the time of the November pro-
jections.  Participants also read the information on 
economic activity abroad, particularly in Europe, as 
pointing to weaker demand for U.S. exports in coming 
quarters than had seemed likely when they prepared 
their forecasts in November. 
Participants anticipated that the pace of the economic 
expansion would strengthen over the 2013–14 period, 
reaching rates of increase in real GDP above their es-
timates of the longer-run rates of output growth.  The 
central tendencies of participants’ forecasts for the 
change in real GDP were 2.8 to 3.2 percent in 2013 and 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of January 24–25, 2012 Page 3
2012 2013 2014 Longer run
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
Target Federal Funds Rate at Year-End
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
3 3
5
4
2
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
            Figure 2. Overview of FOMC participants’ assessments of appropriate monetary policy 
                  Appropriate Timing of Policy Firming                    Number of Participants 
 Appropriate Pace of Policy Firming                          Percent 
NOTE: In the upper panel, the height of each bar denotes the number of FOMC participants who judge that, under appropriate monetary policy and in 
the absence of further shocks to the economy, the first increase in the target federal funds rate from its current range of 0 to ¼ percent will occur in 
the specified calendar year.  In the lower panel, each shaded circle indicates the value (rounded to the nearest ¼ percent) of an individual participant’s 
judgment of the appropriate level of the target federal funds rate at the end of the specified calendar year or over the longer run. 
3.3 to 4.0 percent in 2014.  Among the considerations 
supporting their forecasts, participants cited their ex-
pectation that the expansion would be supported by 
monetary policy accommodation, ongoing improve-
ments in credit conditions, rising household and busi-
ness confidence, and strengthening household balance 
sheets.  Many participants judged that U.S. fiscal policy 
would still be a drag on economic activity in 2013, but 
many anticipated that progress would be made in re-
solving the fiscal situation in Europe and that the for-
eign economic outlook would be more positive.  Over 
time and in the absence of shocks, participants ex-
pected that the rate of increase of real GDP would 
converge to their estimates of its longer-run rate, with a 
central tendency of 2.3 to 2.6 percent, little changed 
from their estimates in November. 
The unemployment rate improved more in late 2011 
than most participants had anticipated when they pre-
pared their November projections, falling from 9.1 to 
8.7 percent between the third and fourth quarters.  As a 
result, most participants adjusted down their projec-
tions for the unemployment rate this year.  Nonethe-
less, with real GDP expected to increase at a modest 
rate in 2012, the unemployment rate was projected to 
decline only a little this year, with the central tendency 
of participants’ forecasts at 8.2 to 8.5 percent at year-
end.  Thereafter, participants expected that the pickup 
in the pace of the expansion in 2013 and 2014 would 
be accompanied by a further gradual improvement in 
labor market conditions.  The central tendency of par-
ticipants’ forecasts for the unemployment rate at the 
end of 2013 was 7.4 to 8.1 percent, and it was 6.7 to  
7.6 percent at the end of 2014.  The central tendency of 
participants’ estimates of the longer-run normal rate of 
unemployment that would prevail in the absence of 
further shocks was 5.2 to 6.0 percent.  Most partici-
pants indicated that they anticipated that five or six 
years would be required to close the gap between the 
current unemployment rate and their estimates of the 
longer-run rate, although some noted that more time 
would likely be needed. 
Figures 3.A and 3.B provide details on the diversity of 
participants’ views regarding the likely outcomes for 
real GDP growth and the unemployment rate over the 
next three years and over the longer run.  The disper-
sion in these projections reflected differences in partic-
ipants’ assessments of many factors, including appro-
priate monetary policy and its effects on economic ac-
tivity, the underlying momentum in economic activity, 
the effects of the European situation, the prospective 
path for U.S. fiscal policy, the likely evolution of credit 
and financial market conditions, and the extent of 
structural dislocations in the labor market.  Compared 
with their November projections, the range of partici-
pants’ forecasts for the change in real GDP in 2012 
narrowed somewhat and shifted slightly lower, as some 
participants reassessed the outlook for global economic 
growth and for U.S. fiscal policy.  Many, however, 
made no material change to their forecasts for growth 
of real GDP this year.  The dispersion of participants’ 
forecasts for output growth in 2013 and 2014 remained 
relatively wide.  Having incorporated the data showing 
a lower rate of unemployment at the end of 2011 than 
previously expected, the distribution of participants’ 
projections for the end of 2012 shifted noticeably down 
relative to the November forecasts.  The ranges for the 
unemployment rate in 2013 and 2014 showed less pro-
nounced shifts toward lower rates and, as was the case 
with the ranges for output growth, remained wide.  
Participants made only modest adjustments to their 
projections of the rates of output growth and unem-
ployment over the longer run, and, on net, the disper-
sions of their projections for both were little changed 
from those reported in November.  The dispersion of 
estimates for the longer-run rate of output growth is 
narrow, with only one participant’s estimate outside of 
a range of 2.2 to 2.7 percent.  By comparison, partici-
pants’ views about the level to which the unemploy-
ment rate would converge in the long run are more 
diverse, reflecting, among other things, different views 
on the outlook for labor supply and on the extent of 
structural impediments in the labor market. 
The Outlook for Inflation 
Participants generally viewed the outlook for inflation 
as very similar to that in November.  Most indicated 
that, as they expected, the effects of the run-up in pric-
es of energy and other commodities and the supply 
disruptions that occurred in the first half of 2011 had 
largely waned, and that inflation had been subdued in 
recent months.  Participants also noted that inflation 
expectations had remained stable over the past year 
despite the fluctuations in headline inflation.  Assuming 
no further supply shocks, most participants anticipated 
that both headline and core inflation would remain 
subdued over the 2012–14 period at rates at or below 
the FOMC’s longer-run objective of 2 percent.  Specif-
ically, the central tendency of participants’ projections 
for the increase in inflation, as measured by the PCE 
price index, in 2012 was 1.4 to 1.8 percent, and it edged 
up to a central tendency of 1.6 to 2.0 percent in 2014; 
the central tendencies of the forecasts for core PCE 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of January 24–25, 2012 Page 5
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 3.A. Distribution of participants’ projections for the change in real GDP, 2012–14 and over the longer run  
2012
November projections
2.0-
2.1 
2.2-
2.3 
2.4-
2.5 
2.6-
2.7 
2.8-
2.9 
3.0-
3.1 
3.2-
3.3 
3.4-
3.5 
3.6-
3.7 
3.8-
3.9 
4.0-
4.1 
4.2-
4.3 
4.4-
4.5 
Percent range
January projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2013
2.0-
2.1 
2.2-
2.3 
2.4-
2.5 
2.6-
2.7 
2.8-
2.9 
3.0-
3.1 
3.2-
3.3 
3.4-
3.5 
3.6-
3.7 
3.8-
3.9 
4.0-
4.1 
4.2-
4.3 
4.4-
4.5 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2014
2.0-
2.1 
2.2-
2.3 
2.4-
2.5 
2.6-
2.7 
2.8-
2.9 
3.0-
3.1 
3.2-
3.3 
3.4-
3.5 
3.6-
3.7 
3.8-
3.9 
4.0-
4.1 
4.2-
4.3 
4.4-
4.5 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Longer run
2.0-
2.1 
2.2-
2.3 
2.4-
2.5 
2.6-
2.7 
2.8-
2.9 
3.0-
3.1 
3.2-
3.3 
3.4-
3.5 
3.6-
3.7 
3.8-
3.9 
4.0-
4.1 
4.2-
4.3 
4.4-
4.5 
Percent range
NOTE: Definitions of variables are in the general note to table 1. 
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 3.B. Distribution of participants’ projections for the unemployment rate, 2012–14 and over the longer run  
2012
November projections
5.0-
5.1 
5.2-
5.3 
5.4-
5.5 
5.6-
5.7 
5.8-
5.9 
6.0-
6.1 
6.2-
6.3 
6.4-
6.5 
6.6-
6.7 
6.8-
6.9 
7.0-
7.1 
7.2-
7.3 
7.4-
7.5 
7.6-
7.7 
7.8-
7.9 
8.0-
8.1 
8.2-
8.3 
8.4-
8.5 
8.6-
8.7 
8.8-
8.9 
Percent range
January projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2013
5.0-
5.1 
5.2-
5.3 
5.4-
5.5 
5.6-
5.7 
5.8-
5.9 
6.0-
6.1 
6.2-
6.3 
6.4-
6.5 
6.6-
6.7 
6.8-
6.9 
7.0-
7.1 
7.2-
7.3 
7.4-
7.5 
7.6-
7.7 
7.8-
7.9 
8.0-
8.1 
8.2-
8.3 
8.4-
8.5 
8.6-
8.7 
8.8-
8.9 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2014
5.0-
5.1 
5.2-
5.3 
5.4-
5.5 
5.6-
5.7 
5.8-
5.9 
6.0-
6.1 
6.2-
6.3 
6.4-
6.5 
6.6-
6.7 
6.8-
6.9 
7.0-
7.1 
7.2-
7.3 
7.4-
7.5 
7.6-
7.7 
7.8-
7.9 
8.0-
8.1 
8.2-
8.3 
8.4-
8.5 
8.6-
8.7 
8.8-
8.9 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Longer run
5.0-
5.1 
5.2-
5.3 
5.4-
5.5 
5.6-
5.7 
5.8-
5.9 
6.0-
6.1 
6.2-
6.3 
6.4-
6.5 
6.6-
6.7 
6.8-
6.9 
7.0-
7.1 
7.2-
7.3 
7.4-
7.5 
7.6-
7.7 
7.8-
7.9 
8.0-
8.1 
8.2-
8.3 
8.4-
8.5 
8.6-
8.7 
8.8-
8.9 
Percent range
NOTE: Definitions of variables are in the general note to table 1. 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of January 24–25, 2012 Page 7
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 3.C. Distribution of participants’ projections for PCE inflation, 2012–14 and over the longer run  
2012
November projections
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
2.3-
2.4 
2.5-
2.6 
2.7-
2.8 
Percent range
January projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2013
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
2.3-
2.4 
2.5-
2.6 
2.7-
2.8 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2014
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
2.3-
2.4 
2.5-
2.6 
2.7-
2.8 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Longer run
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
2.3-
2.4 
2.5-
2.6 
2.7-
2.8 
Percent range
NOTE: Definitions of variables are in the general note to table 1. 
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 3.D. Distribution of participants’ projections for core PCE inflation, 2012–14  
2012
November projections
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
Percent range
January projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2013
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2014
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
Percent range
NOTE: Definitions of variables are in the general note to table 1. 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of January 24–25, 2012 Page 9
inflation were largely the same as those for the total 
measure. 
Figures 3.C and 3.D provide information about the 
diversity of participants’ views about the outlook for 
inflation.  Compared with their November projections, 
expectations for inflation in 2012 shifted down a bit, 
with some participants noting that the slowing in infla-
tion at the end of 2011 had been greater than they an-
ticipated.  Nonetheless, the range of participants’ fore-
casts for inflation in 2012 remained wide, and the dis-
persion was only slightly narrower in 2013.  By 2014, 
the range of inflation forecasts narrowed more notice-
ably, as participants expected that, under appropriate 
monetary policy, inflation would begin to converge to 
the Committee’s longer-run objective.  In general, the 
dispersion of views on the outlook for inflation over 
the projection period represented differences in judg-
ments regarding the degree of slack in resource utiliza-
tion and the extent to which slack influences inflation 
and inflation expectations.  In addition, participants 
differed in their estimates of how the stance of mone-
tary policy would influence inflation expectations. 
Appropriate Monetary Policy 
Most participants judged that the current outlook—for 
a moderate pace of economic recovery with the unem-
ployment rate declining only gradually and inflation 
subdued—warranted exceptionally low levels of the 
federal funds rate at least until late 2014.  In particular, 
five participants viewed appropriate policy firming as 
commencing during 2014, while six others judged that 
the first increase in the federal funds rate would not be 
warranted until 2015 or 2016.  As a result, those         
11 participants anticipated that the appropriate federal 
funds rate at the end of 2014 would be 1 percent or 
lower.  Those who saw the first increase occurring in 
2015 reported that they anticipated that the federal 
funds rate would be ½ percent at the end of that year.  
For the two participants who put the first increase in 
2016, the appropriate target federal funds rate at the 
end of that year was 1½ and 1¾ percent.  In contrast, 
six participants expected that an increase in the target 
federal funds rate would be appropriate within the next 
two years, and those participants anticipated that the 
target rate would need to be increased to around 1½ to 
2¾ percent at the end of 2014. 
Participants’ assessments of the appropriate path for 
the federal funds rate reflected their judgments of the 
policy that would best support progress in achieving 
the Federal Reserve’s mandate for promoting maxi-
mum employment and stable prices.  Among the key 
factors informing participants’ expectations about the 
appropriate setting for monetary policy were their as-
sessments of the maximum level of employment, the 
Committee’s longer-run inflation goal, the extent to 
which current conditions deviate from these mandate-
consistent levels, and their projections of the likely time 
horizons required to return employment and inflation 
to such levels.  Several participants commented that 
their assessments took into account the risks to the 
outlook for economic activity and inflation, and a few 
pointed specifically to the relevance of financial stability 
in their policy judgments.  Participants also noted that 
because the appropriate stance of monetary policy de-
pends importantly on the evolution of real activity and 
inflation over time, their assessments of the appropriate 
future path of the federal funds rate could change if 
economic conditions were to evolve in an unexpected 
manner. 
All participants reported levels for the appropriate tar-
get federal funds rate at the end of 2014 that were well 
below their estimates of the level expected to prevail in 
the longer run.  The longer-run nominal levels were in 
a range from 3¾ to 4½ percent, reflecting participants’ 
judgments about the longer-run equilibrium level of the 
real federal funds rate and the Committee’s inflation 
objective of 2 percent. 
Participants also provided qualitative information on 
their views regarding the appropriate path of the Fed-
eral Reserve’s balance sheet.  A few participants’ as-
sessments of appropriate monetary policy incorporated 
additional purchases of longer-term securities in 2012, 
and a number of participants indicated that they re-
mained open to a consideration of additional asset pur-
chases if the economic outlook deteriorated.  All but 
one of the participants continued to expect that the 
Committee would carry out the normalization of the 
balance sheet according to the principles approved at 
the June 2011 FOMC meeting.  That is, prior to the 
first increase in the federal funds rate, the Committee 
would likely cease reinvesting some or all payments on 
the securities holdings in the System Open Market Ac-
count (SOMA), and it would likely begin sales of agen-
cy securities from the SOMA sometime after the first 
rate increase, aiming to eliminate the SOMA’s holdings 
of agency securities over a period of three to five years.  
Indeed, most participants saw sales of agency securities 
starting no earlier than 2015.  However, those partici-
pants anticipating an earlier increase in the federal 
funds rate also called for earlier adjustments to the bal-
ance sheet, and one participant assumed an early end of 
the maturity extension program. 
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 3.E. Distribution of participants’ projections for the target federal funds rate, 2012–14 and over the longer run  
2012
0.00-
0.37 
0.38-
0.62 
0.63-
0.87 
0.88-
1.12 
1.13-
1.37 
1.38-
1.62 
1.63-
1.87 
1.88-
2.12 
2.13-
2.37 
2.38-
2.62 
2.63-
2.87 
2.88-
3.12 
3.13-
3.37 
3.38-
3.62 
3.63-
3.87 
3.88-
4.12 
4.13-
4.37 
4.38-
4.62 
4.63-
4.87 
Percent range
January projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2013
0.00-
0.37 
0.38-
0.62 
0.63-
0.87 
0.88-
1.12 
1.13-
1.37 
1.38-
1.62 
1.63-
1.87 
1.88-
2.12 
2.13-
2.37 
2.38-
2.62 
2.63-
2.87 
2.88-
3.12 
3.13-
3.37 
3.38-
3.62 
3.63-
3.87 
3.88-
4.12 
4.13-
4.37 
4.38-
4.62 
4.63-
4.87 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2014
0.00-
0.37 
0.38-
0.62 
0.63-
0.87 
0.88-
1.12 
1.13-
1.37 
1.38-
1.62 
1.63-
1.87 
1.88-
2.12 
2.13-
2.37 
2.38-
2.62 
2.63-
2.87 
2.88-
3.12 
3.13-
3.37 
3.38-
3.62 
3.63-
3.87 
3.88-
4.12 
4.13-
4.37 
4.38-
4.62 
4.63-
4.87 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Longer run
0.00-
0.37 
0.38-
0.62 
0.63-
0.87 
0.88-
1.12 
1.13-
1.37 
1.38-
1.62 
1.63-
1.87 
1.88-
2.12 
2.13-
2.37 
2.38-
2.62 
2.63-
2.87 
2.88-
3.12 
3.13-
3.37 
3.38-
3.62 
3.63-
3.87 
3.88-
4.12 
4.13-
4.37 
4.38-
4.62 
4.63-
4.87 
Percent range
NOTE: The target funds rate is measured as the level of the target rate at the end of the calendar year or in the longer run. 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of January 24–25, 2012 Page 11
Figure 3.E details the distribution of participants’ 
judgments regarding the appropriate level of the target 
federal funds rate at the end of each calendar year from 
2012 to 2014 and over the longer run.  Most partici-
pants anticipated that economic conditions would war-
rant maintaining the current low level of the federal 
funds rate over the next two years.  However, views on 
the appropriate level of the federal funds rate at the end 
of 2014 were more widely dispersed, with two-thirds of 
participants seeing the appropriate level of the federal 
funds rate as 1 percent or below and five seeing the 
appropriate rate as 2 percent or higher.  Those partici-
pants who judged that a longer period of exceptionally 
low levels of the federal funds rate would be appropri-
ate generally also anticipated that the pace of the eco-
nomic expansion would be moderate and that the un-
employment rate would decline only gradually, remain-
ing well above its longer-run rate at the end of 2014.  
Almost all of these participants expected that inflation 
would be relatively stable at or below the FOMC’s 
longer-run objective of 2 percent until the time of the 
first increase in the federal funds rate.  A number of 
them also mentioned their assessment that a longer 
period of low federal funds rates is appropriate when 
the federal funds rate is constrained by its effective 
lower bound.  In contrast, the six participants who 
judged that policy firming should begin in 2012 or 2013 
indicated that the Committee would need to act deci-
sively to keep inflation at mandate-consistent levels and 
to limit the risk of undermining Federal Reserve credi-
bility and causing a rise in inflation expectations.  Sev-
eral were projecting a faster pickup in economic activi-
ty, and a few stressed the risk of distortions in the fi-
nancial system from an extended period of exceptional-
ly low interest rates. 
Uncertainty and Risks 
Figure 4 shows that most participants continued to 
share the view that their projections for real GDP 
growth and the unemployment rate were subject to a 
higher level of uncertainty than was the norm during 
the previous 20 years.1  Many also judged the level of 
uncertainty associated with their inflation forecasts to 
be  higher  than the  longer-run  norm, but  that assess- 
1 Table 2 provides estimates of the forecast uncertainty for 
the change in real GDP, the unemployment rate, and total 
consumer price inflation over the period from 1991 to 2010.  
At the end of this summary, the box “Forecast Uncertainty” 
discusses the sources and interpretation of uncertainty in the 
economic forecasts and explains the approach used to assess 
the uncertainty and risks attending the participants’ projec-
tions. 
Table 2.   Average historical projection error ranges  
Percentage points 
Variable 2012 2013 2014 
Change in real GDP1 . . . . . . . . ±1.3 ±1.7 ±1.8 
Unemployment rate1 . . . . . . . . ±0.7 ±1.4 ±1.8 
Total consumer prices2 . . . . . . ±0.9 ±1.0 ±1.0 
NOTE:  Error ranges shown are measured as plus or minus the root 
mean squared error of projections for 1991 through 2010 that were 
released in the winter by various private and government forecasters.  As 
described in the box “Forecast Uncertainty,” under certain assumptions, 
there is about a 70 percent probability that actual outcomes for real 
GDP, unemployment, and consumer prices will be in ranges implied by 
the average size of projection errors made in the past.  Further informa-
tion is in David Reifschneider and Peter Tulip (2007), “Gauging the 
Uncertainty of the Economic Outlook from Historical Forecasting 
Errors,” Finance and Economics Discussion Series 2007-60 (Washing-
ton:  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, November).  
1.  For definitions, refer to general note in table 1. 
2. Measure is the overall consumer price index, the price measure 
that has been most widely used in government and private economic 
forecasts.  Projection is percent change, fourth quarter of the previous 
year to the fourth quarter of the year indicated. 
ment was somewhat less prevalent among participants 
than was the case for uncertainty about real activity.  
Participants identified a number of factors that contri-
buted to the elevated level of uncertainty about the out-
look.  In particular, many participants continued to cite 
risks related to ongoing developments in Europe.  
More broadly, they again noted difficulties in forecast-
ing the path of economic recovery from a deep reces-
sion that was the result of a severe financial crisis and 
thus differed importantly from the experience with re-
coveries over the past 60 years.  In that regard, partici-
pants continued to be uncertain about the pace at 
which credit conditions would ease and about pros-
pects for a recovery in the housing sector.  In addition, 
participants generally saw the outlook for fiscal and 
regulatory policies as still highly uncertain.  Regarding 
the unemployment rate, several expressed uncertainty 
about how labor demand and supply would evolve over 
the forecast period.  Among the sources of uncertainty 
about the outlook for inflation were the difficulties in 
assessing the current and prospective margins of slack 
in resource markets and the effect of such slack on 
prices. 
A majority of participants continued to report that they 
saw the risks to their forecasts of real GDP growth as 
weighted to the downside and, accordingly, the risks to 
their projections for the unemployment rate as skewed 
to the upside.  All but one of the remaining participants 
viewed the risks to both projections as broadly bal-
anced, while one noted a risk that the unemployment 
rate might continue to decline more rapidly than ex-
pected.  The most frequently cited downside risks to 
the projected pace of the economic expansion were the 
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 4. Uncertainty and risks in economic projections  
Uncertainty about GDP growth
November projections
Lower Broadly
similar
Higher
January projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Uncertainty about the unemployment rate
Lower Broadly
similar
Higher
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Uncertainty about PCE inflation
Lower Broadly
similar
Higher
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Uncertainty about core PCE inflation
Lower Broadly
similar
Higher
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Risks to GDP growth
November projections
Weighted to
downside
Broadly
balanced
Weighted to
upside
January projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Risks to the unemployment rate
Weighted to
downside
Broadly
balanced
Weighted to
upside
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Risks to PCE inflation
Weighted to
downside
Broadly
balanced
Weighted to
upside
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Risks to core PCE inflation
Weighted to
downside
Broadly
balanced
Weighted to
upside
NOTE: For definitions of uncertainty and risks in economic projections, see the box “Forecast Uncertainty.” Definitions of variables are in the general
note to table 1. 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of January 24–25, 2012 Page 13
possibility of financial market and economic spillovers 
from the fiscal and financial issues in the euro area and 
the chance that some of the factors that have restrained 
the recovery in recent years could persist and weigh on 
economic activity to a greater extent than assumed in 
participants’ baseline forecasts.  In particular, some 
participants mentioned the downside risks to consumer 
spending from still-weak household balance sheets and 
only modest gains in real income, along with the possi-
ble effects of still-high levels of uncertainty regarding 
fiscal and regulatory policies that might damp business-
es’ willingness to invest and hire.  A number of partici-
pants noted the risk of another disruption in global oil 
markets that could not only boost inflation but also 
reduce real income and spending.  The participants 
who judged the risks to be broadly balanced also rec-
ognized a number of these downside risks to the out-
look but saw them as counterbalanced by the possibili-
ty that the resilience of economic activity in late 2011 
and the recent drop in the unemployment rate might 
signal greater underlying momentum in economic activ-
ity. 
In contrast to their outlook for economic activity, most 
participants judged the risks to their projections of in-
flation as broadly balanced.  Participants generally 
viewed the recent decline in inflation as having been in 
line with their earlier forecasts, and they noted that in-
flation expectations remain stable.  While many of 
these participants saw the persistence of substantial 
slack in resource utilization as likely to keep inflation 
subdued over the projection period, a few others noted 
the risk that elevated resource slack might put more 
downward pressure on inflation than expected.  In con-
trast, some participants noted the upside risks to infla-
tion from developments in global oil and commodity 
markets, and several indicated that the current highly 
accommodative stance of monetary policy and the sub-
stantial liquidity currently in the financial system risked 
a pickup in inflation to a level above the Committee’s 
objective.  A few also pointed to the risk that uncertain-
ty about the Committee’s ability to effectively remove 
policy accommodation when appropriate could lead to 
a rise in inflation expectations.  
Forecast Uncertainty 
The economic projections provided by 
the members of the Board of Governors and 
the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
inform discussions of monetary policy among 
policymakers and can aid public understand-
ing of the basis for policy actions.  Consider-
able uncertainty attends these projections, 
however.  The economic and statistical models 
and relationships used to help produce eco-
nomic forecasts are necessarily imperfect de-
scriptions of the real world, and the future 
path of the economy can be affected by myr-
iad unforeseen developments and events.  
Thus, in setting the stance of monetary policy, 
participants consider not only what appears to 
be the most likely economic outcome as em-
bodied in their projections, but also the range 
of alternative possibilities, the likelihood of 
their occurring, and the potential costs to the 
economy should they occur. 
Table 2 summarizes the average historical 
accuracy of a range of forecasts, including 
those reported in past Monetary Policy Reports 
and those prepared by the Federal Reserve 
Board’s staff in advance of meetings of the 
Federal Open Market Committee.  The pro-
jection error ranges shown in the table il-
lustrate the considerable uncertainty associated 
with economic forecasts.  For example, sup-
pose a participant projects that real gross do-
mestic product (GDP) and total consumer 
prices will rise steadily at annual rates of, re-
spectively, 3 percent and 2 percent.  If the 
uncertainty attending those projections is simi-
lar to that experienced in the past and the risks 
around the projections are broadly balanced, 
the numbers reported in table 2 would imply a 
probability of about 70 percent that actual 
GDP  would  expand  within  a range of 1.7 to   
4.3 percent in the current year, 1.3 to 4.7 per-
cent in the second year, and 1.2 to 4.8 in the 
third year.  The corresponding 70 percent con-
fidence intervals for overall inflation would be 
1.1 to 2.9 percent in the current year and 1.0 to 
3.0 percent in the second and third years. 
Because current conditions may differ 
from those that prevailed, on average, over his-
tory, participants provide judgments as to 
whether the uncertainty attached to their pro-
jections of each variable is greater than, smaller 
than, or broadly similar to typical levels of 
forecast uncertainty in the past, as shown in 
table 2.  Participants also provide judgments as 
to whether the risks to their projections are 
weighted to the upside, are weighted to the 
downside, or are broadly balanced.  That is, 
participants judge whether each variable is 
more likely to be above or below their projec-
tions of the most likely outcome.  These judg-
ments about the uncertainty and the risks at-
tending each participant’s projections are dis-
tinct from the diversity of participants’ views 
about the most likely outcomes.  Forecast un-
certainty is concerned with the risks associated 
with a particular projection rather than with 
divergences across a number of different pro-
jections. 
As with real activity and inflation, the out-
look for the future path of the federal funds 
rate is subject to considerable uncertainty.  This 
uncertainty arises primarily because each partic-
ipant’s assessment of the appropriate stance of 
monetary policy depends importantly on the 
evolution of real activity and inflation over 
time.  If economic conditions evolve in an un-
expected manner, then assessments of the ap-
propriate setting of the federal funds rate 
would change from that point forward.  
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of January 24–25, 2012 Page 15
