
FOMC Minutes, September 20-21, 2022
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee 
September 20–21, 2022 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem was held in the offices of the Board of Governors 
on Tuesday, September 20, 2022, at 1:00 p.m. and con-
tinued on Wednesday, September 21, 2022, at 9:00 a.m.1 
Attendance  
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michael S. Barr 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lael Brainard 
James Bullard 
Susan M. Collins 
Lisa D. Cook 
Esther L. George 
Philip N. Jefferson 
Loretta J. Mester 
Christopher J. Waller 
Charles L. Evans, Patrick Harker, Neel Kashkari, Lorie 
K. Logan, and Helen E. Mucciolo, Alternate 
Members of the Committee 
Thomas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, and Mary C. 
Daly, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively 
James A. Clouse, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
Brian J. Bonis, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Trevor A. Reeve, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
Beth Anne Wilson, Economist 
Shaghil Ahmed, Joseph W. Gruber, Carlos Garriga, and 
William Wascher, Associate Economists  
Patricia Zobel,2 Manager pro tem, System Open Market 
Account 
1 The Federal Open Market Committee is referenced as the 
“FOMC” and the “Committee” in these minutes; the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is referenced as 
the “Board” in these minutes. 
Jose Acosta, Senior Communications Analyst, Division 
of Information Technology, Board  
David Altig, Executive Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta 
Kartik B. Athreya, Executive Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Penelope A. Beattie,3 Section Chief, Office of the 
Secretary, Board 
James P. Bergin, Deputy General Counsel, Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York  
Camille Bryan, Senior Project Manager, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Michele Cavallo, Principal Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Stephanie E. Curcuru, Deputy Director, Division of 
International Finance, Board 
Marnie Gillis DeBoer, Senior Associate Director, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Sarah Devany, First Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco 
Michael Dotsey, Executive Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Burcu Duygan-Bump, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board  
Rochelle M. Edge, Deputy Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Matthew J. Eichner,4 Director, Division of Reserve 
Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board 
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Division 
of Board Members, Board  
Andrew Figura, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
2 In the absence of the manager, the Committee’s Rules of 
Organization provide that the deputy manager acts as manager 
pro tem.  
3 Attended Tuesday’s session only. 
4 Attended through the discussion of developments in finan-
cial markets and open market operations. 
Page 1
Glenn Follette, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Joshua Gallin, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, 
Division of Board Members, Board  
Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, Board  
Luca Guerrieri, Deputy Associate Director, Division of 
Financial Stability, Board 
Diana Hancock, Senior Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Valerie S. Hinojosa, Section Chief, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Matteo Iacoviello, Senior Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance, Board  
Jane E. Ihrig, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Callum Jones, Senior Economist, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board  
Edward S. Knotek II, Senior Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Sylvain Leduc, Executive Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial 
Stability, Board 
Paul Lengermann, Assistant Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Kurt F. Lewis, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board  
Dan Li, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board  
Laura Lipscomb, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
David López-Salido, Senior Associate Director, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jonathan P. McCarthy, Economic Research Advisor, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York  
Ann E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, 
Board  
5 Attended from the discussion of the economic and financial 
situation through the end of Wednesday’s session. 
Michelle M. Neal, Head of Markets, Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York  
Edward Nelson, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Giovanni Olivei, Senior Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston 
Anna Paulson, Executive Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Karen M. Pence,5 Deputy Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics, Board 
Andrea Raffo, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Jeremy B. Rudd, Senior Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics, Board  
Achilles Sangster II, Senior Information Manager, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board  
John W. Schindler, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board  
Samuel Schulhofer-Wohl, Senior Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas  
Seth Searls,4 Associate Director, Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York 
Nitish R. Sinha, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
John J. Stevens, Senior Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board  
Annette Vissing-Jørgensen, Senior Adviser, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jeffrey D. Walker,4 Associate Director, Division of 
Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board 
Min Wei, Senior Associate Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Paul R. Wood, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
Nathaniel Wuerffel, Head of Domestic Markets, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York  
Rebecca Zarutskie, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
Andrei Zlate, Group Manager, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Developments in Financial Markets and Open 
Market Operations 
The manager pro tem turned first to a discussion of fi-
nancial market developments over the intermeeting pe-
riod.  U.S. financial conditions tightened over the period, 
largely reflecting an upward revision in investors’ out-
look for the path of the policy rate.  Treasury yields 
climbed substantially, with most of the upward move re-
flected in real yields.  Equity prices initially rose amid 
second-quarter earnings reports that were better than 
feared but later retraced those gains in response to the 
shifting policy outlook.  Regarding international devel-
opments, yields in most advanced foreign economies 
(AFEs) also rose sharply as a number of other central 
banks lifted policy rates and indicated in their communi-
cations that they would likely continue to tighten mone-
tary policy in order to address inflation pressures.  The 
exchange value of the dollar appreciated notably, reach-
ing multidecade highs in real terms, as market partici-
pants perceived mounting economic challenges abroad. 
The market-implied path of the federal funds rate shifted 
sharply higher after market participants interpreted Fed-
eral Reserve communications—particularly those pro-
vided at the Jackson Hole symposium—along with in-
coming data, as indicating a more restrictive path of pol-
icy than previously expected.  Policy-sensitive rates sug-
gested that a 75 basis point increase in the target range 
for the federal funds rate was widely expected to be de-
cided on at the Committee’s September meeting, with 
some chance of a 100 basis point move.  In addition, the 
market-implied path suggested reasonable odds of addi-
tional 75 basis point and 50 basis point rate increases at 
the November and December meetings, respectively.  
Market participants generally anticipated a further slow-
ing in the pace of rate increases after December, with the 
peak policy rate being reached in the first half of 2023.  
Beyond that period, the market-implied path of the fed-
eral funds rate sloped downward, likely reflecting down-
side risks to the policy rate path.  The median respond-
ent to the Open Market Desk surveys expected the pol-
icy rate path to remain flat through 2023 after the peak 
rate was reached.  On average, Desk survey respondents 
assigned an almost 30 percent probability to a decline in 
real gross domestic product (GDP) over 2022, nearly 
double the probability assigned in the July survey. 
The manager pro tem turned next to a discussion of pol-
icy implementation.  Balance sheet runoff had continued 
to proceed smoothly over the intermeeting period.  With 
caps on redemptions of Treasury securities and agency 
mortgage-backed securities (MBS) doubling in Septem-
ber, the pace of balance sheet runoff was set to increase 
over coming months.  The markets for Treasury securi-
ties and agency MBS continued to function in an orderly 
manner, though liquidity conditions in both markets re-
mained low, reflecting elevated interest rate uncertainty. 
In money markets, the 75 basis point increase in the tar-
get range at the July meeting passed through fully to 
overnight rates.  Amid strong demand for short-term in-
vestments, take-up at the overnight reverse repurchase 
agreement (ON RRP) facility was relatively steady at el-
evated levels. 
The staff continued to anticipate that ON RRP take-up 
would decline in coming quarters from its currently ele-
vated levels as money market participants responded to 
shifting conditions.  Issuance of short-term securities 
was likely to increase in coming periods, and, as more 
clarity emerged in the economic and policy outlook, de-
mand for short-term assets could moderate.  Both of 
these developments would ease downward pressure on 
yields on safe short-term investments.  The gradual re-
duction in ON RRP balances could also be facilitated by 
rising competition among banks in seeking deposits.  
The manager pro tem indicated that the staff would con-
tinue to monitor money market developments closely in 
order to assess whether any frictions were emerging in 
this process. 
The manager pro tem concluded with an update on op-
erational matters.  As expected, Federal Reserve net in-
come turned negative in September.  The staff expected 
that the size of the associated deferred asset would in-
crease over time until net income turned positive, likely 
in a few years.  The Desk planned to begin aggregation 
of those agency MBS held in the System Open Market 
Account (SOMA) that are not eligible to be commingled 
into Uniform MBS and, specifically, the Freddie Mac 
MBS that were issued before June 2019 and have a  
45-day payment delay; decisions about any additional ag-
gregations would be made at a later date. 
By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk’s 
domestic transactions over the intermeeting period.  
There were no intervention operations in foreign curren-
cies for the System’s account during the intermeeting pe-
riod. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation 
The information available at the time of the Septem-
ber 20–21 meeting suggested that U.S. real GDP was in-
creasing at a modest pace in the third quarter after hav-
ing declined over the first half of the year.  Labor de-
mand remained strong, and the labor market continued 
to be very tight.  Recent monthly readings indicated that 
consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month 
percentage change in the price index for personal con-
sumption expenditures (PCE)—remained elevated. 
Total nonfarm payroll employment posted robust gains 
in July and August at an average pace that was only 
slightly below what was seen over the first half of the 
year.  The unemployment rate edged up, on net, from 
3.6 percent in June to 3.7 percent in August.  The unem-
ployment rate for African Americans increased over this 
period, while the rate for Hispanics moved up slightly on 
net; both rates were noticeably higher than the national 
average.  The labor force participation rate and  
employment-to-population ratio both rose, on net, from 
June to August.  The private-sector job openings rate, as 
measured by the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Sur-
vey, moved slightly lower from May to July but remained 
at a high level.  Nominal wage growth continued to be 
rapid and broad based:  Average hourly earnings rose 
5.2 percent over the 12 months ending in August, while 
the employment cost index of hourly compensation in 
the private sector, which also includes benefit costs, rose 
5.5 percent over the 12 months ending in June, 2.4 per-
centage points faster than the year-earlier pace. 
Consumer price inflation remained elevated.  Total PCE 
price inflation was 6.3 percent over the 12 months end-
ing in July, and core PCE price inflation, which excludes 
changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer 
food prices, was 4.6 percent over the same period.  The 
trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price infla-
tion constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
was 4.4 percent in July.  In August, the 12-month change 
in the consumer price index (CPI) was 8.3 percent, while 
core CPI inflation was 6.3 percent over the same period.  
Survey-based measures of short-run inflation expecta-
tions declined in recent weeks, while measures of longer-
term inflation expectations remained roughly stable or 
moved lower. 
Available spending indicators, including the August re-
tail sales report, suggested that real PCE was on track to 
post a modest gain in the third quarter.  However, the 
latest housing market data pointed to another sharp con-
traction in residential investment in the third quarter, 
and business fixed investment appeared to be rising at a 
tepid pace. 
Real goods exports stepped up in June and then rose fur-
ther in July, led by increases in exports of industrial sup-
plies.  By contrast, real goods imports stepped down in 
June and then fell sharply in July, driven by a large de-
cline in consumer goods imports.  Exports and imports 
of services continued to be held back by an incomplete 
recovery of international travel.  The nominal U.S. inter-
national trade deficit continued to narrow in June and 
July.  Altogether, net exports contributed positively to 
GDP growth in the second quarter and appeared on 
track to make another positive contribution in the third 
quarter. 
Data pointed to weak foreign growth in recent months, 
weighed down by the global reverberations from Rus-
sia’s war against Ukraine and a loss of momentum in the 
Chinese economy.  In Europe, further disruptions to the 
supply of energy exacerbated declines in real disposable 
incomes and in consumer and business confidence, re-
straining economic activity.  In China, recent indicators 
suggest only a partial rebound from the effects of earlier 
severe COVID-19-related lockdowns as well as increas-
ing concerns about the property sector.  Weaker growth 
in China and the broader global economy also weighed 
on export-oriented emerging market economies in Asia.  
Consumer price inflation rose further in August in many 
foreign economies, reflecting past increases in energy 
and food prices, but also a continued broadening of in-
flationary pressure to core prices.  With inflation persis-
tently high, many central banks continued to tighten 
monetary policy. 
Staff Review of the Financial Situation 
Over the intermeeting period, U.S. Treasury yields and 
the market-implied federal funds rate path moved 
higher.  Broad domestic equity price indexes decreased 
slightly, on balance, but market volatility remained ele-
vated.  Credit remained widely available to most types of 
borrowers, but increases in borrowing costs appeared to 
damp the demand for credit in some markets in recent 
months.  Measures of current loan performance for 
businesses and most households remained generally sta-
ble.  However, more recently, expectations of future 
credit quality for businesses deteriorated slightly, and de-
linquency rates rose for some types of credit owed by 
households with low credit scores.  
The expected path of the federal funds rate—implied by 
a straight read of financial market quotes—rose in the 
period since the July FOMC meeting, largely reflecting 
more-restrictive-than-expected monetary policy com-
munications amid stronger-than-expected economic 
data and ongoing concerns about high inflation.  On net, 
nominal Treasury yields increased significantly across 
the maturity spectrum.  The increases in nominal Treas-
ury yields were primarily accounted for by rising real 
yields, while inflation compensation measures declined 
substantially at short horizons and remained relatively 
little changed at medium- and longer-term horizons. 
Broad equity price indexes decreased slightly, on net, as 
substantial early gains arising from investors’ improved 
perceptions about the inflation outlook and better-than-
feared second-quarter earnings were more than offset by 
later losses arising from expectations that the Committee 
would follow a more restrictive policy than previously 
expected.  One-month option-implied volatility on the 
S&P 500—the VIX—increased somewhat, on net, and 
remained elevated by historical norms, partly reflecting 
investor uncertainty and risks associated with higher in-
flation and the expected move to a restrictive policy 
stance.  Corporate bond spreads narrowed slightly, on 
net, and remained roughly at the midpoints of their his-
torical distributions.  Reflecting increases in both policy 
rates and corporate bond spreads, yields on corporate 
bonds rose significantly since the start of the year.  Mu-
nicipal bond spreads over comparable-maturity Treasury 
yields widened a touch. 
Conditions in short-term funding markets remained sta-
ble over the intermeeting period, with the July increase 
in the Federal Reserve’s administered interest rates pass-
ing through quickly to other money market rates.  Al-
though secured overnight rates firmed slightly later in 
the intermeeting period, they remained soft relative to 
the ON RRP offering rate—a configuration that market 
participants attributed to relatively low Treasury bill sup-
ply combined with strong investor demand for short-
dated instruments amid uncertainty about the future 
path of the policy rate.  Consistent with continued soft-
ness in repurchase agreement rates, daily take-up in the 
ON RRP facility remained elevated.  Spreads on lower-
rated short-term commercial paper changed little on net.  
Bank deposit rates continued to increase modestly in 
August, following a lagged response to increases in the 
federal funds rate, while money market mutual funds’ 
net yields rose along with the increases in short-term 
rates. 
Sovereign yields in most AFEs rose notably over the in-
termeeting period as major central banks raised their 
policy rates and communicated a tighter stance of future 
policy in the face of persistent inflationary pressures.  
Yields on Japanese government securities, however, 
ended the period little changed, as the Bank of Japan re-
affirmed its accommodative monetary policy stance.  
Measures of foreign inflation compensation were vola-
tile amid large swings in European natural gas prices but 
increased moderately on net.  The U.S. dollar appreci-
ated further against most major currencies, reaching 
multi-decade highs against the euro, the British pound, 
and the Japanese yen.  The dollar’s strength largely re-
flected increasing investor concerns about the global 
growth outlook as well as widening interest rate differ-
entials between the United States and Japan.  Growth 
concerns also weighed on foreign equity prices, which 
declined moderately.  Outflows from funds dedicated to 
emerging markets continued at a modest pace, and credit 
spreads in emerging market economies narrowed some-
what on net. 
In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs continued 
to rise over the intermeeting period.  Yields on both cor-
porate bonds and institutional leveraged loans increased.  
Bank interest rates for commercial and industrial (C&I) 
and commercial real estate (CRE) loans also increased.  
Among small businesses that borrow on a regular basis, 
the share of firms facing higher borrowing costs contin-
ued to climb through August.  Municipal bond yields in-
creased across ratings categories.  Borrowing costs for 
residential mortgage loans increased and reached their 
highest levels since 2008.  Interest rates on most credit 
card accounts continued to move higher, in line with the 
rise in the federal funds rate, and auto loan interest rates 
rose steadily through August. 
Credit remained generally available to businesses and 
households, but high borrowing costs appeared to re-
duce the demand for credit, resulting in lower financing 
volumes in some markets.  Issuance of nonfinancial cor-
porate bonds slowed further in July from the weak levels 
seen in the second quarter but rebounded somewhat in 
August and so far in September.  Gross institutional lev-
eraged loan issuance increased modestly in July from 
subdued levels but continued to be weak in August.  Eq-
uity issuance remained depressed, while issuance of mu-
nicipal bonds was sluggish over the summer and so far 
in September. 
According to the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Sur-
vey on Bank Lending Practices, banks tightened credit 
standards on C&I lending for the first time in two years, 
but C&I loans on banks’ balance sheets expanded at a 
strong pace in July and August, reflecting strong demand 
from nonfinancial businesses.  CRE loans on banks’ bal-
ance sheets also continued to grow robustly, but issu-
ance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) 
slowed in July from its strong pace earlier in the year.  
Credit availability to small businesses appeared to be 
tightening somewhat.  The share of small firms reporting 
that it was more difficult to obtain loans continued its 
upward trend in August but remained lower than its his-
torical average. 
Credit in the residential mortgage market remained avail-
able for high-credit-score borrowers.  Credit availability 
for low-credit-score borrowers continued to ease 
through July but remained modestly tight—close to pre-
pandemic averages.  However, the volumes of both 
home-purchase and refinance mortgage originations 
plunged in July amid rising mortgage rates.  Consumer 
credit remained available to most households in June 
and July, but about half of the respondents in the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York’s Survey of Consumer Ex-
pectations indicated that it was harder to obtain credit 
than it was a year earlier and that they expected it to be-
come even harder over the next year. 
The credit quality of nonfinancial corporations remained 
generally strong, with low default rates for both corpo-
rate bonds and leveraged loans.  The volume of rating 
upgrades in the corporate bond market outpaced that of 
downgrades in July and August, but, so far in September, 
these relative volumes reversed.  The volume of rating 
downgrades in the leveraged loan market continued to 
exceed that of upgrades.  Credit quality for C&I and 
CRE loans on banks’ balance sheets also remained 
sound, as delinquency rates remained at low levels 
through June.  However, banks increased loan loss pro-
visions somewhat in the second quarter.  Delinquency 
rates on CRE loans securitized into CMBS remained un-
changed in July, delinquency rates on small business 
loans stayed quite low after edging up, and the credit 
quality of municipal securities remained strong. 
Household credit quality stayed broadly solid but con-
tinued to worsen for some types of credit owed by bor-
rowers with low credit scores.  Mortgage delinquencies 
trended down in recent months, and the share of mort-
gages in foreclosure remained low in July.  By contrast, 
credit card and auto credit delinquency rates rose over 
the second quarter, particularly among subprime bor-
rowers, with subprime auto loan delinquency rates re-
bounding notably to slightly above their historical aver-
ages. 
Staff Economic Outlook 
The projection for U.S. economic activity prepared by 
the staff for the September FOMC meeting was slightly 
weaker than the July forecast.  However, the staff’s esti-
mate of potential output in recent history was revised 
down significantly in response to continued disappoint-
ing productivity growth and the sluggish gains in labor 
force participation seen so far this year; moreover, this 
lower trajectory for potential output was expected to 
persist throughout the forecast period.  As a result, the 
staff’s estimate of the output gap was revised up consid-
erably this year, and while the staff projection still had 
the output gap closing in coming years, the level of out-
put was expected to be slightly above potential at the end 
of 2025.  Likewise, the unemployment rate was expected 
to rise more slowly than in the July projection and to be 
slightly below the staff’s estimate of its natural rate at the 
end of 2025. 
On a 12-month change basis, total PCE price inflation 
was expected to be 5.1 percent in 2022, and core infla-
tion was expected to be 4.3 percent.  Although the staff 
continued to project that core inflation would step down 
over the next two years—reflecting the anticipated reso-
lution of supply–demand imbalances and a labor market 
that was expected to become less tight—core inflation 
was revised up in each year of the projection.  In 2025, 
core inflation was expected to be 2.1 percent.  Total 
PCE price inflation was expected to decline to 2.6 per-
cent in 2023 as core inflation slowed and energy prices 
declined.  Total PCE inflation was expected to move 
down further in 2024, to 2 percent, and to remain at 
2 percent in 2025. 
The staff continued to judge that the risks to the baseline 
projection for real activity were skewed to the downside.  
In addition to Russia’s war in Ukraine, weakening activ-
ity abroad, and ongoing supply chain bottlenecks, the 
possibility that a persistent reduction in inflation could 
require a greater-than-assumed amount of tightening in 
financial conditions was viewed by the staff as a salient 
downside risk to their forecast for real activity.  The staff 
viewed the risks to the inflation projection as skewed to 
the upside on the grounds that supply conditions might 
not improve as much as expected and energy prices 
might rise sharply again.  The staff also pointed to the 
possibility that wage increases could put a greater-than-
expected amount of upward pressure on price inflation 
and the possibility that inflation expectations could be-
come unanchored given the large rise in inflation seen 
over the past year as additional upside risks to the infla-
tion forecast. 
Participants’ Views on Current Conditions and the 
Economic Outlook 
In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, participants 
submitted their projections of the most likely outcomes 
for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and infla-
tion for each year from 2022 through 2025 and over the 
longer run, based on their individual assessments of ap-
propriate monetary policy, including the path of the fed-
eral funds rate.  The longer-run projections represented 
each participant’s assessment of the rate to which each 
variable would be expected to converge, over time, un-
der appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of 
further shocks to the economy.  A Summary of Eco-
nomic Projections was released to the public following 
the conclusion of the meeting. 
In their discussion of current economic conditions, par-
ticipants noted that recent indicators had pointed to 
modest growth in spending and production.  Job gains 
had been robust in recent months, and the unemploy-
ment rate had remained low.  Inflation remained ele-
vated, reflecting supply and demand imbalances related 
to the pandemic, higher food and energy prices, and 
broader price pressures.  Participants recognized that 
Russia’s war against Ukraine was causing tremendous 
human and economic hardship.  Participants judged that 
the war and related events were creating additional up-
ward pressure on inflation and were weighing on global 
economic activity.  Against this background, participants 
remained highly attentive to inflation risks. 
With regard to the economic outlook, participants noted 
that recent data pointed to modest growth in economic 
activity over the second half of this year.  Participants 
observed that recent indicators of consumer spending 
and business investment suggested modest increases in 
those spending categories but noted that activity in in-
terest-sensitive sectors weakened appreciably.  Partici-
pants revised down their projections of real GDP 
growth for this year from their projections in June.  Sev-
eral participants noted that the continued strength in the 
labor market, as well as the data on gross domestic in-
come, raised the possibility that the current GDP data 
could understate the strength in economic activity this 
year.  Participants generally anticipated that the U.S. 
economy would grow at a below-trend pace in this and 
the coming few years, with the labor market becoming 
less tight, as monetary policy assumed a restrictive stance 
and global headwinds persisted.  Participants noted that 
a period of below-trend real GDP growth would help 
reduce inflationary pressures and set the stage for the 
sustained achievement of the Committee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
In their discussion of the household sector, participants 
noted that consumer spending grew moderately, reflect-
ing strength in the labor market, the elevated level of 
household savings accumulated during the pandemic, 
and a strong aggregate household-sector balance sheet.  
Several participants noted that spending appeared to 
have held up relatively well, especially among higher-in-
come households.  These participants also noted that the 
composition of spending by low-to-moderate-income 
households—who were affected to a greater degree by 
high food, energy, and shelter prices—was changing, 
with discretionary expenditures being cut and purchases 
shifting to lower-cost options.  Participants observed 
that the notable slowdown in residential investment and 
other interest-sensitive spending had continued, reflect-
ing the effect of the Committee’s monetary policy ac-
tions and tighter financial conditions. 
With regard to the business sector, participants observed 
that growth in investment spending appeared modest.  
Several participants mentioned that manufacturing activ-
ity had slowed.  A couple of participants noted that busi-
nesses were constrained in undertaking new capital pro-
jects, as they faced higher financing costs, persistent 
challenges associated with supply bottlenecks, and hiring 
difficulties resulting from the continued tightness of the 
labor market. 
Participants discussed how they perceived challenging 
supply conditions to be evolving.  Many participants re-
marked that their business contacts were reporting signs 
of relief in supply bottlenecks, such as declines in ship-
ping costs and delivery times and rising inventories, 
while several participants saw little improvement in the 
supply situation.  Participants saw supply bottlenecks as 
likely continuing for a while longer, and a couple com-
mented that constraints on production were increasingly 
taking the form of labor shortages rather than parts 
shortages. 
Participants observed that the labor market had re-
mained very tight, as evidenced by a historically low un-
employment rate, elevated job vacancies and quit rates, 
a low pace of layoffs, robust employment gains, and high 
nominal wage growth.  A few participants remarked that 
employers facing particularly acute labor shortages were 
those associated with professional occupations, service 
industries, skilled trades, and smaller firms.  Some par-
ticipants noted a number of developments consistent 
with the labor market moving toward better balance, in-
cluding a lower rate of job turnover, a moderation in em-
ployment growth, and an increase in the labor force par-
ticipation rate for prime-age workers.  However, several 
participants assessed that the scope for further improve-
ment in labor force participation was likely limited, es-
pecially in view of the sizable contribution that retire-
ments had made to the previous decline in the participa-
tion rate.  
Participants anticipated that the supply and demand im-
balances in the labor market would gradually diminish 
and the unemployment rate would likely rise somewhat, 
importantly reflecting the effects of tighter monetary 
policy.  Participants judged that a softening in the labor 
market would be needed to ease upward pressures on 
wages and prices.  Participants expected that the transi-
tion toward a softer labor market would be accompanied 
by an increase in the unemployment rate.  Several com-
mented that they considered it likely that the transition 
would occur primarily through reduced job vacancies 
and slower job creation.  A couple of participants re-
marked that, in light of challenges in hiring, businesses 
might be less willing to reduce their staffing levels in the 
event of a weakening in general economic activity.  A 
few participants particularly stressed the high uncer-
tainty associated with the expected future path of the un-
employment rate and commented that the unemploy-
ment rate could rise by considerably more than in the 
staff forecast. 
Participants observed that inflation remained unaccept-
ably high and well above the Committee’s longer-run 
goal of 2 percent.  Participants commented that recent 
inflation data generally had come in above expectations 
and that, correspondingly, inflation was declining more 
slowly than they had previously been anticipating.  Price 
pressures had remained elevated and had persisted 
across a broad array of product categories.  Energy 
prices had declined in recent months but remained con-
siderably higher than in 2021, and upside risks to energy 
prices remained.  Several participants noted the contin-
ued elevated rates of increase in core goods prices.  
These participants considered this development as po-
tentially indicating that the shift of household spending 
from goods to services might be having a smaller effect 
on goods prices than they expected or that the supply 
bottlenecks and labor shortages were taking longer to be 
resolved.  Participants commented that they expected in-
flation pressures to persist in the near term.  Numerous 
contributing factors were cited as supporting this view, 
including labor market tightness and the resulting up-
ward pressure on nominal wages, continuing supply 
chain disruptions, and the persistent nature of increases 
in services prices, particularly shelter prices.   
With respect to the medium term, participants judged 
that inflation pressures would gradually recede in com-
ing years.  Various factors were cited as likely to contrib-
ute to this outcome, including the Committee’s tighten-
ing of its policy stance, a gradual easing of supply and 
demand imbalances in labor and product markets, and 
the likelihood that weaker consumer demand would re-
sult in a reduction of business profit margins from their 
current elevated levels.  A few participants reported that 
business contacts in certain retail sectors—such as used 
cars and apparel—were planning to cut prices in order 
to help reduce their inventories.  Several participants 
commented that while households across the income 
distribution were burdened by elevated inflation, those 
at the lower end of the income distribution were partic-
ularly harmed, as a larger share of their income was spent 
on housing and other necessities. 
In assessing inflation expectations, participants noted 
that longer-term expectations appeared to remain well 
anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of 
households, businesses, and forecasters as well as 
measures obtained from financial markets.  Participants 
remarked that the Committee’s affirmation of its strong 
commitment to its price-stability objective, together with 
its forceful policy actions, had likely helped keep longer-
run inflation expectations anchored.  Some stressed that 
a more prolonged period of elevated inflation would in-
crease the risk of inflation expectations becoming unan-
chored, making it much more costly to bring inflation 
down.  A few participants discussed the increased dis-
persion of longer-term inflation expectations across re-
spondents in various surveys, with an increase in the 
number of respondents reporting relatively low expecta-
tions of future inflation acknowledged as a key driver of 
the increased dispersion but with a couple of participants 
citing higher inflation expectations among some survey 
respondents as a cause for concern and a reason not to 
be complacent about longer-term inflation expectations 
remaining well anchored. 
Participants agreed that the uncertainty associated with 
their economic outlooks was high and that risks to their 
inflation outlook were weighted to the upside.  Some 
participants noted rising labor tensions, a new round of 
global energy price increases, further disruptions in sup-
ply chains, and a larger-than-expected pass-through of 
wage increases into price increases as potential shocks 
that, if they materialized, could compound an already 
challenging inflation problem.  A number of participants 
commented that a wage–price spiral had not yet devel-
oped but cited its possible emergence as a risk.   
Participants broadly judged the risks to real GDP growth 
to be weighted to the downside, with various global 
headwinds most prominently cited as contributing fac-
tors.  These global headwinds included heightened risk 
of recession in Europe, a slowdown in economic activity 
occurring in China, and the ongoing global economic 
implications of Russia’s war against Ukraine.  Several 
participants noted that the monetary policy tightening 
under way in many other economies would affect global 
financial markets and foreign real GDP growth, with the 
potential for spillovers to the U.S. economy. 
In their consideration of the appropriate stance of mon-
etary policy, participants concurred that the labor market 
was very tight and that inflation was far above the Com-
mittee’s 2 percent inflation objective.  Participants ob-
served that recent indicators of production and spending 
had pointed to modest growth, while job gains had been 
robust and the unemployment rate had remained low.  
Against this backdrop, all participants agreed that it was 
appropriate to raise the target range for the federal funds 
rate 75 basis points at this meeting and to continue the 
process of reducing the Federal Reserve’s securities 
holdings, as described in the Plans for Reducing the Size 
of the Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet that the Commit-
tee issued in May.  Policymakers observed that the rate 
hike at this meeting was another step toward making the 
Committee’s monetary policy stance sufficiently restric-
tive to help ease supply and demand imbalances and to 
bring inflation back to 2 percent.  Participants reaffirmed 
their strong commitment to returning inflation to the 
Committee’s 2 percent objective, with many stressing 
the importance of staying on this course even as the la-
bor market slowed. 
In discussing potential policy actions at upcoming meet-
ings, participants continued to anticipate that ongoing 
increases in the target range for the federal funds rate 
would be appropriate to achieve the Committee’s objec-
tives.  Participants judged that the Committee needed to 
move to, and then maintain, a more restrictive policy 
stance in order to meet the Committee’s legislative man-
date to promote maximum employment and price stabil-
ity.  Many participants noted that, with inflation well 
above the Committee’s 2 percent objective and showing 
little sign so far of abating, and with supply and demand 
imbalances in the economy continuing, they had raised 
their assessment of the path of the federal funds rate that 
would likely be needed to achieve the Committee’s goals.  
Participants judged that the pace and extent of policy 
rate increases would continue to depend on the implica-
tions of incoming information for the outlook for eco-
nomic activity and inflation and on risks to the outlook.  
Several participants noted that, particularly in the current 
highly uncertain global economic and financial environ-
ment, it would be important to calibrate the pace of fur-
ther policy tightening with the aim of mitigating the risk 
of significant adverse effects on the economic outlook.  
Participants observed that, as the stance of monetary 
policy tightened further, it would become appropriate at 
some point to slow the pace of policy rate increases 
while assessing the effects of cumulative policy adjust-
ments on economic activity and inflation.  Many partici-
pants indicated that, once the policy rate had reached a 
sufficiently restrictive level, it likely would be appropri-
ate to maintain that level for some time until there was 
compelling evidence that inflation was on course to re-
turn to the 2 percent objective.  Participants noted that, 
in keeping with the Committee’s Plans for Reducing the 
Size of the Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet, balance 
sheet runoff had moved up to its maximum planned 
pace in September and would continue at that pace.  
They further observed that a significant reduction in the 
Committee’s holdings of securities was in progress and 
that this process was contributing to the move to a re-
strictive policy stance.  A couple of participants re-
marked that, after the process of balance sheet reduction 
was well under way, it would be appropriate for the 
Committee to consider sales of agency MBS in order to 
enable suitable progress toward a longer-run SOMA 
portfolio composed primarily of Treasury securities. 
In their assessment of the effects of policy actions and 
communications to date, participants concurred that the 
Committee’s actions to raise expeditiously the target 
range for the federal funds rate demonstrated its resolve 
to lower inflation to 2 percent and to keep inflation ex-
pectations anchored at levels consistent with that longer-
run goal.  Participants noted that the Committee’s com-
mitment to restoring price stability, together with its pur-
poseful policy actions and communications, had con-
tributed to a notable tightening of financial conditions 
over the past year that would likely help reduce inflation 
pressures by restraining aggregate demand.  Participants 
observed that this tightening had led to substantial in-
creases in real interest rates across the maturity spec-
trum.  Most participants remarked that, although some 
interest-sensitive categories of spending—such as hous-
ing and business fixed investment—had already started 
to respond to the tightening of financial conditions, a 
sizable portion of economic activity had yet to display 
much response.  They noted also that inflation had not 
yet responded appreciably to policy tightening and that 
a significant reduction in inflation would likely lag that 
of aggregate demand.  Participants observed that a pe-
riod of real GDP growth below its trend rate, very likely 
accompanied by some softening in labor market condi-
tions, was required.  They agreed that, by moving its pol-
icy purposefully toward an appropriately restrictive 
stance, the Committee would help ensure that elevated 
inflation did not become entrenched and that inflation 
expectations did not become unanchored.  These policy 
moves would therefore prevent the far greater economic 
pain associated with entrenched high inflation, including 
the even tighter policy and more severe restraint on eco-
nomic activity that would then be needed to restore price 
stability. 
In light of the broad-based and unacceptably high level 
of inflation, the intermeeting news of higher-than- 
expected inflation, and upside risks to the inflation out-
look, participants remarked that purposefully moving to 
a restrictive policy stance in the near term was consistent 
with risk-management considerations.  Many partici-
pants emphasized that the cost of taking too little action 
to bring down inflation likely outweighed the cost of tak-
ing too much action.  Several participants underlined the 
need to maintain a restrictive stance for as long as nec-
essary, with a couple of these participants stressing that 
historical experience demonstrated the danger of prem-
aturely ending periods of tight monetary policy designed 
to bring down inflation.  Several participants observed 
that as policy moved into restrictive territory, risks 
would become more two-sided, reflecting the emergence 
of the downside risk that the cumulative restraint in ag-
gregate demand would exceed what was required to 
bring inflation back to 2 percent.  A few of these partic-
ipants noted that this possibility was heightened by fac-
tors beyond the Committee’s actions, including the 
tightening of monetary policy stances abroad and the 
weakening global economic outlook, that were also likely 
to restrain domestic economic activity in the period 
ahead. 
Committee Policy Action 
In their discussion of monetary policy for this meeting, 
members agreed that recent indicators had pointed to 
modest growth in spending and production.  Members 
also concurred that job gains had been robust in recent 
months and the unemployment rate had remained low.  
Members agreed that inflation remained elevated, re-
flecting supply and demand imbalances related to the 
pandemic, higher food and energy prices, and broader 
price pressures. 
Members observed that Russia’s war against Ukraine 
was causing tremendous human and economic hardship.  
They also agreed that the war and related events were 
creating additional upward pressure on inflation and 
were weighing on global economic activity.  Members 
remarked that they remained highly attentive to inflation 
risks. 
In their assessment of the monetary policy stance neces-
sary for achieving the Committee’s maximum-employ-
ment and price-stability goals, the Committee decided to 
raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 3 to 
3¼ percent and anticipated that ongoing increases in the 
target range would be appropriate.  In addition, mem-
bers agreed that the Committee would continue reduc-
ing its holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt 
and agency MBS, as described in the Plans for Reducing 
the Size of the Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet issued in 
May. 
Members agreed that, in assessing the appropriate stance 
of monetary policy, they would continue to monitor the 
implications of incoming information for the economic 
outlook and that they would be prepared to adjust the 
stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerged 
that could impede the attainment of the Committee’s 
goals.  They also noted that their assessments would take 
into account a wide range of information, including 
readings on public health, labor market conditions, in-
flation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial 
and international developments.  Members affirmed that 
the Committee was strongly committed to returning in-
flation to its 2 percent objective. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee 
voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, until instructed otherwise, to execute 
transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the fol-
lowing domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“Effective September 22, 2022, the Federal 
Open Market Committee directs the Desk to: 
 Undertake open market operations as nec-
essary to maintain the federal funds rate in 
a target range of 3 to 3¼ percent. 
 Conduct overnight repurchase agreement 
operations with a minimum bid rate of 
3.25 percent and with an aggregate opera-
tion limit of $500 billion; the aggregate op-
eration limit can be temporarily increased at 
the discretion of the Chair. 
 Conduct overnight reverse repurchase 
agreement operations at an offering rate of 
3.05 percent and with a per-counterparty 
limit of $160 billion per day; the  
per-counterparty limit can be temporarily 
increased at the discretion of the Chair. 
 Roll over at auction the amount of principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s hold-
ings of Treasury securities maturing in each 
calendar month that exceeds a cap of 
$60 billion per month.  Redeem Treasury 
coupon securities up to this monthly cap 
and Treasury bills to the extent that coupon 
principal payments are less than the 
monthly cap. 
 Reinvest into agency mortgage-backed se-
curities (MBS) the amount of principal pay-
ments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings 
of agency debt and agency MBS received in 
each calendar month that exceeds a cap of 
$35 billion per month. 
 Allow modest deviations from stated 
amounts for reinvestments, if needed for 
operational reasons. 
 Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settle-
ment of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS 
transactions.” 
The vote also encompassed approval of the statement 
below for release at 2:00 p.m.:  
“Recent indicators point to modest growth in 
spending and production.  Job gains have been 
robust in recent months, and the unemploy-
ment rate has remained low.  Inflation remains 
elevated, reflecting supply and demand imbal-
ances related to the pandemic, higher food and 
energy prices, and broader price pressures. 
Russia’s war against Ukraine is causing tremen-
dous human and economic hardship.  The war 
and related events are creating additional up-
ward pressure on inflation and are weighing on 
global economic activity.  The Committee is 
highly attentive to inflation risks. 
6 In taking this action, the Board approved requests to estab-
lish that rate submitted by the boards of directors of the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Rich-
mond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas.  
This vote also encompassed approval by the Board of Gover-
nors of the establishment of a 3.25 percent primary credit rate 
by the remaining Federal Reserve Banks, effective on the later 
The Committee seeks to achieve maximum em-
ployment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent 
over the longer run.  In support of these goals, 
the Committee decided to raise the target range 
for the federal funds rate to 3 to 3¼ percent and 
anticipates that ongoing increases in the target 
range will be appropriate.  In addition, the Com-
mittee will continue reducing its holdings of 
Treasury securities and agency debt and agency 
mortgage-backed securities, as described in the 
Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Re-
serve’s Balance Sheet that were issued in May.  
The Committee is strongly committed to re-
turning inflation to its 2 percent objective. 
In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary 
policy, the Committee will continue to monitor 
the implications of incoming information for 
the economic outlook.  The Committee would 
be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary 
policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could 
impede the attainment of the Committee’s 
goals.  The Committee’s assessments will take 
into account a wide range of information, in-
cluding readings on public health, labor market 
conditions, inflation pressures and inflation ex-
pectations, and financial and international de-
velopments.” 
Voting for this action:  Jerome H. Powell, John C. 
Williams, Michael S. Barr, Michelle W. Bowman, Lael 
Brainard, James Bullard, Susan M. Collins, Lisa D. Cook, 
Esther L. George, Philip N. Jefferson, Loretta J. Mester, 
and Christopher J. Waller. 
Voting against this action:  None. 
To support the Committee’s decision to raise the target 
range for the federal funds rate, the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to 
raise the interest rate paid on reserve balances to 
3.15 percent, effective September 22, 2022.  The Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve a ¾ percentage point increase 
in the primary credit rate to 3.25 percent, effective Sep-
tember 22, 2022.6  
of September 22, 2022, or the date such Reserve Banks inform 
the Secretary of the Board of such a request.  (Secretary’s note:  
Subsequently, the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Min-
neapolis, and San Francisco were informed of the Board’s ap-
proval of their establishment of a primary credit rate of 
3.25 percent, effective September 22, 2022.) 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee 
would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, November 1–2, 
2022.  The meeting adjourned at 10:20 a.m. on Septem-
ber 21, 2022. 
Notation Vote 
By notation vote completed on August 16, 2022, the 
Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the 
Committee meeting held on July 26–27, 2022. 
James A. Clouse 
Secretary 
