
FOMC Minutes, March 13, 2012
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee 
March 13, 2012
A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tues-
day, March 13, 2012, at 8:30 a.m. 
PRESENT:  
Ben Bernanke, Chairman 
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman 
Elizabeth Duke 
Jeffrey M. Lacker 
Dennis P. Lockhart 
Sandra Pianalto 
Sarah Bloom Raskin 
Daniel K. Tarullo 
John C. Williams 
Janet L. Yellen 
James Bullard, Christine Cumming, Charles L. 
Evans, Esther L. George, and Eric Rosengren, 
Alternate Members of the Federal Open Mar-
ket Committee 
Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, and 
Charles I. Plosser, Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Dallas, Minneapolis, and 
Philadelphia, respectively 
William B. English, Secretary and Economist 
Deborah J. Danker, Deputy Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Assistant Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Scott G. Alvarez, General Counsel 
Thomas C. Baxter, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
David W. Wilcox, Economist 
David Altig, Thomas A. Connors, Michael P. 
Leahy, David Reifschneider, Glenn D. Rude-
busch, William Wascher, and John A. Wein-
berg, Associate Economists 
Brian Sack, Manager, System Open Market Ac-
count 
Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Banking 
Supervision and Regulation, Board of Gover-
nors 
Nellie Liang, Director, Office of Financial Stability 
Policy and Research, Board of Governors 
Jon W. Faust and Andrew T. Levin, Special Advi-
sors to the Board, Office of Board Members, 
Board of Governors 
James A. Clouse, Deputy Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of 
Board Members, Board of Governors 
Seth B. Carpenter, Senior Associate Director, Divi-
sion of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
Thomas Laubach, Senior Adviser, Division of Re-
search and Statistics, Board of Governors; El-
len E. Meade, Stephen A. Meyer, and Joyce K. 
Zickler, Senior Advisers, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors 
Eric M. Engen, Michael T. Kiley, and Michael G. 
Palumbo, Associate Directors, Division of Re-
search and Statistics, Board of Governors 
Edward Nelson, Section Chief, Division of Mone-
tary Affairs, Board of Governors 
Harvey Rosenblum and Daniel G. Sullivan, Execu-
tive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of 
Dallas and Chicago, respectively 
Craig S. Hakkio, Geoffrey Tootell, and Kei-Mu Yi, 
Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks 
of Kansas City, Boston, and Minneapolis, re-
spectively 
Michael Dotsey, Joseph G. Haubrich, Lorie K. Lo-
gan, and David C. Wheelock, Vice Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleve-
land, New York, and St. Louis, respectively 
Marc Giannoni, Senior Economist, Federal Re-
serve Bank of New York 
Page 1
Developments in Financial Markets and the Fed-
eral Reserve’s Balance Sheet 
The Manager of the System Open Market Account 
(SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and 
foreign financial markets during the period since the 
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on Jan-
uary 24–25, 2012.  He also reported on System open 
market operations, including the ongoing reinvestment 
into agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities 
(MBS) of principal payments received on SOMA hold-
ings of agency debt and agency-guaranteed MBS as well 
as the operations related to the maturity extension pro-
gram authorized at the September 20–21, 2011, FOMC 
meeting.  By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified 
the Desk’s domestic transactions over the intermeeting 
period.  There were no intervention operations in for-
eign currencies for the System’s account over the in-
termeeting period. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation 
The information reviewed at the March 13 meeting 
suggested that economic activity was expanding mod-
erately.  Labor market conditions continued to improve 
and the unemployment rate declined further, although 
it remained elevated.  Overall consumer price inflation 
was relatively subdued in recent months.  More recent-
ly, prices of crude oil and gasoline increased substan-
tially.  Measures of long-run inflation expectations re-
mained stable. 
Private nonfarm employment rose at an appreciably 
faster average pace in January and February than in the 
fourth quarter of last year, and declines in total gov-
ernment employment slowed in recent months.  The 
unemployment rate decreased to 8.3 percent in January 
and stayed at that level in February.  Both the rate of 
long-duration unemployment and the share of workers 
employed part time for economic reasons continued to 
be high.  Initial claims for unemployment insurance 
trended lower over the intermeeting period and were at 
a level consistent with further moderate job gains. 
Manufacturing production increased considerably in 
January, and the rate of manufacturing capacity utiliza-
tion stepped up.  Factory output was boosted by a siz-
able expansion in the production of motor vehicles, but 
there also were solid and widespread gains in other in-
dustries.  In February, motor vehicle assemblies re-
mained near the strong pace recorded in January; they 
were scheduled to edge up, on net, through the second 
quarter.  Broader indicators of manufacturing activity, 
such as the diffusion indexes of new orders from the 
national and regional manufacturing surveys, were at 
levels suggesting moderate increases in factory produc-
tion in the coming months. 
Households’ real disposable income increased, on bal-
ance, in December and January as labor earnings rose 
solidly.  Moreover, households’ net worth grew in the 
fourth quarter of last year and likely was boosted fur-
ther by gains in equity values thus far this year.  Never-
theless, real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) 
were reported to have been flat in December and Janu-
ary.  Although households’ purchases of motor vehicles 
rose briskly, spending for other consumer goods and 
services was weak.  In February, nominal retail sales 
excluding purchases at motor vehicle and parts outlets 
increased moderately, while motor vehicle sales contin-
ued to climb.  Consumer sentiment was little changed 
in February, and households remained downbeat about 
both the economic outlook and their own income and 
finances. 
Housing market activity improved somewhat in recent 
months but continued to be restrained by the substan-
tial inventory of foreclosed and distressed properties, 
tight credit conditions for mortgage loans, and uncer-
tainty about the economic outlook and future home 
prices.  After increasing in December, starts of new 
single-family homes remained at that higher level in 
January, likely boosted in part by unseasonably warm 
weather; in both months, starts ran above permit is-
suance.  Sales of new and existing homes stepped up 
further in recent months, though they still remained at 
quite low levels.  Home prices were flat, on balance, in 
December and January. 
Real business expenditures on equipment and software 
rose at a notably slower pace in the fourth quarter of 
last year than earlier in the year.  Moreover, nominal 
orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods de-
clined in January.  However, a number of forward-
looking indicators of firms’ equipment spending im-
proved, including some survey measures of business 
conditions and capital spending plans.  Nominal busi-
ness spending for nonresidential construction firmed, 
on net, in December and January, but the level of 
spending was still subdued, in part reflecting high va-
cancy rates and tight credit conditions for construction 
loans.  Inventories in most industries looked to be rea-
sonably well aligned with sales in recent months, al-
though stocks of motor vehicles continued to be lean. 
Data for federal government spending in January and 
February indicated that real defense expenditures con-
tinued to step down after decreasing significantly in the 
fourth quarter.  Real state and local government pur-
chases looked to be declining at a slower pace than last 
year, as those governments’ payrolls edged up in Janu-
ary and February and their nominal construction 
spending rose a little in January. 
The U.S. international trade deficit widened in Decem-
ber and January, as imports increased more than ex-
ports.  The expansion of imports was spread across 
most categories, with petroleum products and automo-
tive products posting strong gains in January.  The rise 
in exports was supported by shipments of capital goods 
and automotive products, while exports of consumer 
goods and industrial supplies declined on average.  Da-
ta through December indicated that net exports made a 
moderate negative contribution to the rate of growth in 
real gross domestic product (GDP) in the fourth quar-
ter of last year. 
Overall U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE 
price index, increased at a modest rate in December 
and January.  Consumer energy prices rose in January 
after decreasing markedly in December, and survey 
data indicated that gasoline prices moved up consider-
ably in February and early March.  Meanwhile, increas-
es in consumer food prices slowed in recent months.  
Consumer prices excluding food and energy also rose 
modestly in December and January.  Near-term infla-
tion expectations from the Thomson Reu-
ters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers 
were unchanged in February, and longer-term inflation 
expectations in the survey remained in their recent 
range. 
Measures of labor compensation generally indicated 
that nominal wage gains continued to be subdued.  In-
creases in compensation per hour in the nonfarm busi-
ness sector picked up somewhat over the four quarters 
of 2011.  However, the employment cost index in-
creased at a more modest pace than the compensation 
per hour measure over the past year, and the 12-month 
change in average hourly earnings for all employees 
remained muted in January and February. 
Recent indicators suggested some improvement in for-
eign economic activity early this year after a significant 
slowing in the fourth quarter of last year.  Aggregate 
output in the euro area contracted in the fourth quarter, 
but manufacturing purchasing managers indexes 
(PMIs) improved in January and February relative to 
their low fourth-quarter readings, and consumer and 
business confidence edged up.  Floods caused steep 
production declines in the fourth quarter in Thailand 
and also had negative effects on output in other coun-
tries linked through Thai supply chains.  However, 
economic activity in Thailand recovered sharply around 
year-end, and manufacturing PMIs moved up across 
Asia through February.  Higher prices for energy and 
food put upward pressure on headline inflation in for-
eign economies, but measures of core inflation re-
mained subdued. 
Staff Review of the Financial Situation 
On balance, U.S. financial conditions became some-
what more supportive of growth over the intermeeting 
period, and strains in global financial markets eased, as 
domestic and foreign economic data were generally 
better than market participants had expected and inves-
tors appeared to see diminished downside risks asso-
ciated with the situation in Europe. 
Measures of the expected path for the federal funds 
rate derived from overnight index swap (OIS) rates 
suggested that the near-term portion of the expected 
policy rate path was about unchanged, on balance, 
since the January FOMC meeting, but the path beyond 
the middle of 2014 shifted down a bit, reportedly re-
flecting in part the change in the forward rate guidance 
in the Committee’s January statement.  On balance, 
yields on Treasury securities were little changed over 
the intermeeting period.  Indicators of inflation com-
pensation over the next five years edged up, while 
changes in measures of longer-term inflation compen-
sation were mixed. 
Conditions in unsecured short-term dollar funding 
markets improved over the period, especially for finan-
cial institutions with European parents.  The spread of 
the three-month London interbank offered rate 
(LIBOR) over the OIS rate narrowed.  In addition, 
spreads of rates on asset-backed commercial paper over 
those on AA-rated nonfinancial paper decreased signif-
icantly, and the amounts outstanding from programs 
with European sponsors remained stable.  Moreover, 
the average maturity of unsecured U.S. commercial 
paper issued by European banks lengthened somewhat 
over the intermeeting period. 
Responses to the March 2012 Senior Credit Officer 
Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms indicated 
little change, on balance, over the past three months in 
credit terms for important classes of counterparties.  
Demand for securities financing was reported to have 
risen somewhat across asset types, but dealers indicated 
that the risk appetite of most clients had changed rela-
tively little over the previous three months. 
Broad U.S. equity price indexes rose significantly over 
the intermeeting period; equity prices of large banking 
organizations increased about in line with the broader 
market.  Aggregate earnings per share for firms in the 
Standard & Poor’s 500 index declined in the fourth 
quarter, but profit margins for large corporations re-
mained wide by historical standards.  Reflecting a nar-
rowing of spreads over yields on comparable-maturity 
Treasury securities, yields on investment- and specula-
tive-grade corporate bonds continued to decline over 
the period, moving toward the low end of their histori-
cal ranges.  Prices in the secondary market for syndi-
cated leveraged loans moved up further, supported by 
continued strong demand from institutional investors.  
The spreads of yields on A2/P2-rated unsecured com-
mercial paper issued by nonfinancial firms over yields 
on A1/P1-rated issues narrowed slightly on balance. 
Bond issuance by financial firms was strong in January 
and February, likely reflecting in part the refinancing of 
maturing debt that had been issued during the financial 
crisis under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.  The 
issuance of bonds by domestic nonfinancial firms was 
solid in recent months, and indicators of credit quality 
remained firm.  Growth of commercial and industrial 
(C&I) loans continued to be substantial and was wide-
spread across domestic banks, though holdings of such 
loans at U.S. branches and agencies of European banks 
decreased further.  Financing conditions in the com-
mercial real estate sector continued to be tight, and 
issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities 
remained low in the fourth quarter of last year.  Gross 
public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms was still 
solid in January and February, boosted by continued 
strength in initial public offerings.  Share repurchases 
and cash-financed mergers by nonfinancial firms main-
tained their strength in the fourth quarter, leading to a 
sharp decline in net equity issuance. 
Although mortgage rates remained near their historical 
lows, conditions in residential mortgage markets gener-
ally remained depressed.  Consumer credit rose in re-
cent months, with the growth in nonrevolving credit 
led by continued rapid expansion of government-
originated student loans.  Issuance of consumer credit 
asset-backed securities remained at moderate levels in 
the fourth quarter of 2011 and in early 2012. 
Gross long-term issuance of municipal bonds was sub-
dued in the first two months of this year.  Meanwhile, 
spreads on credit default swaps for debt issued by 
states were roughly flat over the intermeeting period.  
Bank credit rose at a modest pace, on average, in Janu-
ary and February, mainly reflecting strong increases in 
securities holdings and C&I loans.  Commercial real 
estate loans held by banks continued to decline, while 
noncore loans—a category that includes lending to 
nonbank financial institutions—grew at a slower pace 
than in previous months.  The aggregate credit quality 
of loans on banks’ books continued to improve across 
most asset classes in the fourth quarter. 
M2 advanced at a rapid pace in January, apparently re-
flecting year-end effects, but its growth slowed in Feb-
ruary.  The rise in M2 was mainly attributable to con-
tinued strength in liquid deposits, reflecting investors’ 
preferences for safe and liquid assets as well as very low 
yields on short-term instruments outside M2.  Currency 
expanded robustly, and the monetary base also grew 
significantly over January and February. 
Foreign equity markets ended the period higher, partic-
ularly in Japan, and benchmark sovereign bond yields 
declined.  Spreads of yields on euro-area peripheral 
sovereign debt over those on German bunds generally 
continued to narrow, and foreign corporate credit 
spreads also declined further.  The staff’s broad nomin-
al index of the foreign exchange value of the dollar 
moved down modestly over the intermeeting period. 
Funding conditions for euro-area banks eased over the 
period, as the European Central Bank (ECB) con-
ducted its second three-year refinancing operation and 
widened the pool of eligible collateral for refinancing 
operations.  Spreads of three-month euro LIBOR over 
the OIS rate narrowed, on balance, and European 
banks’ issuance of unsecured senior debt and covered 
bonds increased.  Dollar funding pressures continued 
to diminish, and the implied cost of dollar funding 
through the foreign exchange swap market fell mod-
erately further.  Reflecting the improved conditions in 
funding markets, demand for dollars at ECB lending 
operations declined and the outstanding amounts 
drawn under the Federal Reserve’s dollar liquidity swap 
lines with other foreign central banks remained small.  
Several other central banks in advanced and emerging 
market economies eased policy further.  In particular, 
the Bank of England increased the size of its existing 
gilt purchase program in February, and the Bank of 
Japan scaled up its Asset Purchase Program.  The Bank 
of Japan also introduced a 1 percent inflation goal. 
Staff Economic Outlook 
In the economic projection prepared for the March 
FOMC meeting, the staff revised up its near-term fore-
cast for real GDP growth a little.  Although the recent 
data on aggregate spending were, on balance, about in 
line with the staff’s expectations at the time of the pre-
vious forecast, indicators of labor market conditions 
and production improved somewhat more than the 
staff had anticipated.  In addition, the decline in the 
unemployment rate over the past year was larger than 
what seemed consistent with the modest reported rate 
of real GDP growth.  Against this backdrop, the staff 
reduced its estimate of the level of potential output, 
yielding a measure of the current output gap that was a 
little narrower and better aligned with the staff’s esti-
mate of labor market slack.  In its March forecast, the 
staff’s projection for real GDP growth over the me-
dium term was somewhat higher than the one pre-
sented in January, mostly reflecting an improved out-
look for economic activity abroad, a lower foreign ex-
change value for the dollar, and a higher projected path 
of equity prices.  Nevertheless, the staff continued to 
forecast that real GDP growth would pick up only 
gradually in 2012 and 2013, supported by accommoda-
tive monetary policy, easing credit conditions, and im-
provements in consumer and business sentiment.  The 
wide margin of slack in product and labor markets was 
expected to decrease gradually over the projection pe-
riod, but the unemployment rate was expected to re-
main elevated at the end of 2013. 
The staff also revised up its forecast for inflation a bit 
compared with the projection prepared for the January 
FOMC meeting, reflecting recent data indicating higher 
paths for the prices of oil, other commodities, and im-
ports, along with a somewhat narrower margin of eco-
nomic slack in the March forecast.  However, with 
energy prices expected to level out in the second half of 
this year, substantial resource slack persisting over the 
forecast period, and stable long-run inflation expecta-
tions, the staff continued to project that inflation would 
be subdued in 2012 and 2013. 
Participants’ Views on Current Conditions and the 
Economic Outlook 
In their discussion of the economic situation and out-
look, meeting participants agreed that the information 
received since the Committee’s previous meeting, while 
mixed, had been positive, on balance, and suggested 
that the economy had been expanding moderately.  
Labor market conditions had improved further:  Pay-
roll employment had continued to expand, and the un-
employment rate had declined notably in recent 
months.  Still, unemployment remained elevated.  
Household spending and business fixed investment had 
continued to advance.  Despite signs of improvement 
or stabilization in some local housing markets, most 
participants agreed that the housing sector remained 
depressed.  Inflation had been subdued in recent 
months, although prices of crude oil and gasoline had 
increased of late.  Longer-term inflation expectations 
had remained stable, and most meeting participants saw 
little evidence of cost pressures. 
With respect to the economic outlook, participants 
generally saw the intermeeting news as suggesting that 
economic growth over coming quarters would continue 
to be moderate and that the unemployment rate would 
decline gradually toward levels that the Committee 
judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  While a 
few participants indicated that their expectations for 
real GDP growth for 2012 had risen somewhat, most 
participants did not interpret the recent economic and 
financial information as pointing to a material revision 
to the outlook for 2013 and 2014.  Financial conditions 
had improved notably since the January meeting:  Equi-
ty prices were higher and risk spreads had declined.  
Nonetheless, a number of factors continued to be seen 
as likely to restrain the pace of economic expansion; 
these included slower growth in some foreign econo-
mies, prospective fiscal tightening in the United States, 
the weak housing market, further household deleverag-
ing, and high levels of uncertainty among households 
and businesses.  Participants continued to expect most 
of the factors restraining economic expansion to ease 
over time and so anticipated that the recovery would 
gradually gain strength.  In addition, participants noted 
that recent policy actions in the euro area had helped 
reduce financial stresses and lower downside risks in 
the short term; however, increased volatility in financial 
markets remained a possibility if measures to address 
the longer-term fiscal and banking issues in the euro 
area were not put in place in a timely fashion.  Inflation 
had been subdued of late, although the recent increase 
in crude oil and gasoline prices would push up inflation 
temporarily.  With unemployment expected to remain 
elevated, and with longer-term inflation expectations 
stable, most participants expected that inflation subse-
quently would run at or below the 2 percent rate that 
the Committee judges most consistent with its statutory 
mandate over the longer run. 
In discussing the household sector, meeting partici-
pants generally commented that consumer spending 
had increased moderately of late.  While a few partici-
pants suggested that recent improvements in labor 
market conditions and the easing in financial conditions 
could help lay the groundwork for a strengthening in 
the pace of household spending, several other partici-
pants pointed to factors that would likely restrain con-
sumption:  Growth in real disposable income was still 
sluggish, and consumer sentiment, despite some im-
provement since last summer, remained weak.  A num-
ber of participants viewed the recent run-up in petro-
leum prices as likely to limit gains in consumer spend-
ing on non-energy items for a time; a couple of partici-
pants noted, however, that the unseasonably warm 
weather and the declining price of natural gas had 
helped cushion the effect of higher oil and gasoline 
prices on consumers’ overall energy bills.  Most partici-
pants agreed that, while recent housing-sector data had 
shown some tentative indications of upward move-
ment, the level of activity in that sector remained de-
pressed and was likely to recover only slowly over time.  
One participant, while agreeing that the housing market 
had not yet turned the corner, was more optimistic 
about the potential for a stronger recovery in the mar-
ket in light of signs of reduced inventory overhang and 
stronger demand in some regions.   
Reports from business contacts indicated that activity 
in the manufacturing, energy, and agriculture sectors 
continued to advance in recent months.  In the retail 
sector, sales of new autos had strengthened, but reports 
from other retailers were mixed.  A number of busi-
nesses had indicated that they were seeing some im-
provement in demand and that they had become 
somewhat more optimistic of late, with some reporting 
that they were adding to capacity.  But most firms re-
portedly remained fairly cautious—particularly on hir-
ing decisions—and continued to be uncertain about the 
strength of the recovery. 
Participants touched on the outlook for fiscal policy 
and the export sector.  Assessments of the outlook for 
government revenues and expenditures were mixed.  
State and local government spending had recently 
shown modest growth, following a lengthy period of 
contraction, and declines in public-sector employment 
appeared to have abated of late.  However, it was noted 
that if agreement was not reached on a longer-term 
plan for the federal budget, an abrupt and sharp fiscal 
tightening would occur at the start of 2013.  A number 
of participants observed that exports continued to be a 
positive factor for U.S. growth, while noting risks to 
the export picture from economic weakness in Europe 
or a greater-than-expected slowdown in China and 
emerging Asia. 
Participants generally observed the continued im-
provement in labor market conditions since the January 
meeting.  A couple of participants stated that the 
progress suggested by the payroll numbers was also 
apparent in a broad array of labor market indicators, 
and others noted survey measures suggesting further 
solid gains in employment going forward.  One partici-
pant pointed to inflation readings and a high rate of 
long-duration unemployment as signs that the current 
level of output may be much closer to potential than 
had been thought, and a few others cited a weaker path 
of potential output as a characteristic of the present 
expansion.  However, a number of participants judged 
that the labor market currently featured substantial 
slack.  In support of that view, various indicators were 
cited, including aggregate hours, which during the re-
cession had exhibited a decline that was particularly 
severe by historical standards and remained well below 
the series’ pre-recession peak; the high number of per-
sons working part time for economic reasons; and low 
ratios of job openings to unemployment and of em-
ployment to population. 
Most participants noted that the incoming information 
on components of final spending had exhibited less 
strength than the indicators of employment and pro-
duction.  Some participants expressed the view that the 
recent increases in payrolls likely reflected, in part, a 
reversal of the sharp cuts in employment during the 
recession, a scenario consistent with the weak readings 
on productivity growth of late.  In this view, the recent 
pace of employment gains might not be sustained if the 
growth rate of spending did not pick up.  Several par-
ticipants noted that the unseasonably warm weather of 
recent months added one more element of uncertainty 
to the interpretation of incoming data, and that this 
factor might account for a portion of the recent im-
provement in indicators of employment and housing.  
In a contrasting view, the improvements registered in 
labor market indicators could be seen as raising the 
likelihood that GDP data for the recent period would 
undergo a significant upward revision. 
Many participants noted that strains in global financial 
markets had eased somewhat, and that financial condi-
tions were more supportive of economic growth than 
at the time of the January meeting.  Among the evi-
dence cited were higher equity prices and better condi-
tions in corporate credit markets, especially the markets 
for high-yield bonds and leveraged loans.  Banking con-
tacts were reporting steady, though modest, growth in 
C&I loans.  Many meeting participants believed that 
policy actions in the euro area, notably the Greek debt 
swap and the ECB’s longer-term refinancing opera-
tions, had helped to ease strains in financial markets 
and reduced the downside risks to the U.S. and global 
economic outlook.  Nonetheless, a number of partici-
pants noted that a longer-term solution to the banking 
and fiscal problems in the euro area would require sub-
stantial further adjustment in the banking and public 
sectors.  Participants saw the possibility of disruptions 
in global financial markets as continuing to pose a risk 
to growth. 
While the recent readings on consumer price inflation 
had been subdued, participants agreed that inflation in 
the near term would be pushed up by rising oil and 
gasoline prices.  A few participants noted that the crude 
oil price increases in the latter half of 2010 and the ear-
ly part of 2011 had been part of a broad-based rise in 
commodity prices; in contrast, non-energy commodity 
prices had been more stable of late, which suggested 
that the recent upward pressure on oil prices was prin-
cipally due to geopolitical concerns rather than global 
economic growth.  A couple of participants noted that 
recent readings on unit labor costs had shown a larger 
increase than earlier, but other participants pointed to 
other measures of labor compensation that continued 
to show modest increases.  With longer-run inflation 
expectations still well anchored, most participants an-
ticipated that after the temporary effect of the rise in oil 
and gasoline prices had run its course, inflation would 
be at or below the 2 percent rate that they judge most 
consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate.  Indeed, 
a few participants were concerned that, with the persis-
tence of considerable resource slack, inflation might be 
below the mandate-consistent rate for some time.  
Other participants, however, were worried that infla-
tion pressures could increase as the expansion contin-
ued; these participants argued that, particularly in light 
of the recent rise in oil and gasoline prices, maintaining 
the current highly accommodative stance of monetary 
policy over the medium run could erode the stability of 
inflation expectations and risk higher inflation. 
Committee Policy Action 
Members viewed the information on U.S. economic 
activity received over the intermeeting period as sug-
gesting that the economy had been expanding mod-
erately and generally agreed that the economic outlook, 
while a bit stronger overall, was broadly similar to that 
at the time of their January meeting.  Labor market 
conditions had continued to improve and unemploy-
ment had declined in recent months, but almost all 
members saw the unemployment rate as still elevated 
relative to levels that they viewed as consistent with the 
Committee’s mandate over the longer run.  With the 
economy facing continuing headwinds, members gen-
erally expected a moderate pace of economic growth 
over coming quarters, with gradual further declines in 
the unemployment rate.  Strains in global financial 
markets, while having eased since January, continued to 
pose significant downside risks to economic activity.  
Recent monthly readings on inflation had been sub-
dued, and longer-term inflation expectations remained 
stable.  Against that backdrop, members generally an-
ticipated that the recent increase in oil and gasoline 
prices would push up inflation temporarily, but that 
subsequently inflation would run at or below the rate 
that the Committee judges most consistent with its 
mandate. 
In their discussion of monetary policy for the period 
ahead, members agreed that it would be appropriate to 
maintain the existing highly accommodative stance of 
monetary policy.  In particular, they agreed to keep the 
target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent, 
to continue the program of extending the average ma-
turity of the Federal Reserve’s holdings of securities as 
announced in September, and to retain the existing pol-
icies regarding the reinvestment of principal payments 
from Federal Reserve holdings of securities. 
With respect to the statement to be released following 
the meeting, members agreed that only relatively small 
modifications to the first two paragraphs were needed 
to reflect the incoming economic data, the improve-
ment in financial conditions, and the modest changes 
to the economic outlook.  With the economic outlook 
over the medium term not greatly changed, almost all 
members again agreed to indicate that the Committee 
expects to maintain a highly accommodative stance for 
monetary policy and currently anticipates that econom-
ic conditions—including low rates of resource utiliza-
tion and a subdued outlook for inflation over the me-
dium run—are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels 
for the federal funds rate at least through late 2014.  
Several members continued to anticipate, as in January, 
that the unemployment rate would still be well above 
their estimates of its longer-term normal level, and in-
flation would be at or below the Committee’s longer-
run objective, in late 2014.  It was noted that the 
Committee’s forward guidance is conditional on eco-
nomic developments, and members concurred that the 
date given in the statement would be subject to revision 
in response to significant changes in the economic out-
look.  While recent employment data had been encour-
aging, a number of members perceived a nonnegligible 
risk that improvements in employment could diminish 
as the year progressed, as had occurred in 2010 and 
2011, and saw this risk as reinforcing the case for leav-
ing the forward guidance unchanged at this meeting.  
In contrast, one member judged that maintaining the 
current degree of policy accommodation much beyond 
this year would likely be inappropriate; that member 
anticipated that a tightening of monetary policy would 
be necessary well before the end of 2014 in order to 
keep inflation close to the Committee’s 2 percent ob-
jective. 
The Committee also stated that it is prepared to adjust 
the size and composition of its securities holdings as 
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery 
in a context of price stability.  A couple of members 
indicated that the initiation of additional stimulus could 
become necessary if the economy lost momentum or if 
inflation seemed likely to remain below its mandate-
consistent rate of 2 percent over the medium run. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee 
voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to ex-
ecute transactions in the System Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive: 
“The Federal Open Market Committee seeks 
monetary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable 
growth in output.  To further its long-run 
objectives, the Committee seeks conditions 
in reserve markets consistent with federal 
funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  
The Committee directs the Desk to continue 
the maturity extension program it began in 
September to purchase, by the end of June 
2012, Treasury securities with remaining ma-
turities of approximately 6 years to 30 years 
with a total face value of $400 billion, and to 
sell Treasury securities with remaining matur-
ities of 3 years or less with a total face value 
of $400 billion.  The Committee also directs 
the Desk to maintain its existing policies of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities into 
new issues and of reinvesting principal pay-
ments on all agency debt and agency mort-
gage-backed securities in the System Open 
Market Account in agency mortgage-backed 
securities in order to maintain the total face 
value of domestic securities at approximately 
$2.6 trillion.  The Committee directs the 
Desk to engage in dollar roll transactions as 
necessary to facilitate settlement of the Fed-
eral Reserve’s agency MBS transactions.  The 
System Open Market Account Manager and 
the Secretary will keep the Committee in-
formed of ongoing developments regarding 
the System’s balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee’s 
objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability.” 
The vote encompassed approval of the statement be-
low to be released at 2:15 p.m.: 
“Information received since the Federal 
Open Market Committee met in January 
suggests that the economy has been expand-
ing moderately.  Labor market conditions 
have improved further; the unemployment 
rate has declined notably in recent months 
but remains elevated.  Household spending 
and business fixed investment have contin-
ued to advance.  The housing sector remains 
depressed.  Inflation has been subdued in re-
cent months, although prices of crude oil 
and gasoline have increased lately.  Longer-
term inflation expectations have remained 
stable.  
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the 
Committee seeks to foster maximum em-
ployment and price stability.  The Committee 
expects moderate economic growth over 
coming quarters and consequently anticipates 
that the unemployment rate will decline 
gradually toward levels that the Committee 
judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  
Strains in global financial markets have 
eased, though they continue to pose signifi-
cant downside risks to the economic out-
look.  The recent increase in oil and gasoline 
prices will push up inflation temporarily, but 
the Committee anticipates that subsequently 
inflation will run at or below the rate that it 
judges most consistent with its dual mandate.  
To support a stronger economic recovery 
and to help ensure that inflation, over time, 
is at the rate most consistent with its dual 
mandate, the Committee expects to maintain 
a highly accommodative stance for monetary 
policy.  In particular, the Committee decided 
today to keep the target range for the federal 
funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and currently 
anticipates that economic conditions—
including low rates of resource utilization 
and a subdued outlook for inflation over the 
medium run—are likely to warrant excep-
tionally low levels for the federal funds rate 
at least through late 2014.  
The Committee also decided to continue its 
program to extend the average maturity of its 
holdings of securities as announced in Sep-
tember.  The Committee is maintaining its 
existing policies of reinvesting principal 
payments from its holdings of agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in 
agency mortgage-backed securities and of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities at 
auction.  The Committee will regularly re-
view the size and composition of its securi-
ties holdings and is prepared to adjust those 
holdings as appropriate to promote a strong-
er economic recovery in a context of price 
stability.”  
Voting for this action:  Ben Bernanke, William C. 
Dudley, Elizabeth Duke, Dennis P. Lockhart, Sandra 
Pianalto, Sarah Bloom Raskin, Daniel K. Tarullo, John 
C. Williams, and Janet L. Yellen. 
Voting against this action:  Jeffrey M. Lacker. 
Mr. Lacker dissented because he did not agree that 
economic conditions were likely to warrant exception-
ally low levels of the federal funds rate at least through 
late 2014.  In his view, with inflation close to the 
Committee’s objective of 2 percent, the economy ex-
panding at a moderate pace, and downside risks some-
what diminished, the federal funds rate will most likely 
need to rise considerably sooner to prevent the emer-
gence of inflationary pressures.  Mr. Lacker continues 
to prefer to provide forward guidance regarding future 
Committee policy actions through the inclusion of 
FOMC participants’ projections of the federal funds 
rate in the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP).  
Monetary Policy Communications 
As it noted in its statement of principles regarding 
longer-run goals and monetary policy strategy released 
in January, the Committee seeks to explain its monetary 
policy decisions to the public as clearly as possible.  
With that goal in mind, participants discussed a range 
of additional steps that the Committee might take to 
help the public better understand the linkages between 
the evolving economic outlook and the Federal Re-
serve’s monetary policy decisions, and thus the condi-
tionality in the Committee’s forward guidance.  The 
purpose of the discussion was to explore potentially 
promising approaches for further enhancing FOMC 
communications; no decisions on this topic were 
planned for this meeting and none were taken. 
Participants discussed ways in which the Committee 
might include, in its postmeeting statements, additional 
qualitative or quantitative information that could con-
vey a sense of how the Committee might adjust policy 
in response to changes in the economic outlook.  Par-
ticipants also discussed whether modifications to the 
SEP that the Committee releases four times per year 
could be helpful in clarifying the linkages between the 
economic outlook and the Committee’s monetary poli-
cy decisions.  In addition, several participants suggested 
that it could be helpful to discuss at a future meeting 
some alternative economic scenarios and the monetary 
policy responses that might be seen as appropriate un-
der each one, in order to clarify the Committee’s likely 
behavior in different contingencies.  Finally, partici-
pants observed that the Committee introduced several 
important enhancements to its policy communications 
over the past year or so; these included the Chairman’s 
postmeeting press conferences as well as changes to the 
FOMC statement and the SEP.  Against this backdrop, 
some participants noted that additional experience with 
the changes implemented to date could be helpful in 
evaluating potential further enhancements. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee 
would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, April 24–25, 
2012.  The meeting adjourned at 4:10 p.m. on      
March 13, 2012. 
Notation Vote 
By notation vote completed on February 14, 2012, the 
Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the 
FOMC meeting held on January 24–25, 2012. 
William B. English 
Secretary 
