
FOMC Minutes, April 24-25, 2012
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee 
April 24–25, 2012
A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tues-
day, April 24, 2012, at 1:00 p.m., and continued on 
Wednesday, April 25, 2012, at 8:30 a.m. 
PRESENT:  
Ben Bernanke, Chairman 
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman 
Elizabeth Duke 
Jeffrey M. Lacker 
Dennis P. Lockhart 
Sandra Pianalto 
Sarah Bloom Raskin 
Daniel K. Tarullo 
John C. Williams 
Janet L. Yellen 
James Bullard, Christine Cumming, Charles L. Evans, 
Esther L. George, and Eric Rosengren, Alternate 
Members of the Federal Open Market Committee 
Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, and 
Charles I. Plosser, Presidents of the Federal Re-
serve Banks of Dallas, Minneapolis, and Philadel-
phia, respectively 
William B. English, Secretary and Economist 
Deborah J. Danker, Deputy Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Assistant Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Scott G. Alvarez, General Counsel 
Thomas C. Baxter, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
David W. Wilcox, Economist 
David Altig, Thomas A. Connors, Michael P. Leahy, 
William Nelson, Simon Potter, David Reifschneid-
er, and William Wascher, Associate Economists 
Brian Sack, Manager, System Open Market Account 
Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Banking Su-
pervision and Regulation, Board of Governors 
Nellie Liang, Director, Office of Financial Stability Pol-
icy and Research, Board of Governors 
Jon W. Faust and Andrew T. Levin, Special Advisors to 
the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
James A. Clouse, Deputy Director, Division of Mone-
tary Affairs, Board of Governors; Matthew J. 
Eichner, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics, Board of Governors 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of 
Board Members, Board of Governors 
Thomas Laubach, Senior Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics, Board of Governors; Ellen E. 
Meade, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Af-
fairs, Board of Governors 
Daniel M. Covitz and David E. Lebow, Associate Di-
rectors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board 
of Governors 
David Bowman, Deputy Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance, Board of Governors; 
Gretchen C. Weinbach, Deputy Associate Direc-
tor, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Gov-
ernors 
Jane E. Ihrig, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors 
David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Mone-
tary Affairs, Board of Governors 
Gregory L. Stefani, First Vice President, Federal Re-
serve Bank of Cleveland 
Jeff Fuhrer, Loretta J. Mester, Harvey Rosenblum, and 
Daniel G. Sullivan, Executive Vice Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, 
Dallas, and Chicago, respectively 
Troy Davig, Ron Feldman, Mark E. Schweitzer, Chris-
topher J. Waller, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal 
Reserve Banks of Kansas City, Minneapolis, Cleve-
land, and St. Louis, respectively 
John Fernald, Group Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco 
Page 1
Andreas L. Hornstein and Lorie K. Logan, Vice Presi-
dents, Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond and 
New York, respectively 
Monetary Policy under Alternative Scenarios  
A staff presentation provided an overview of an exer-
cise that explored individual participants’ views on ap-
propriate monetary policy responses under alternative 
economic scenarios.  Committee participants discussed 
the potential value and drawbacks of this type of exer-
cise for both internal deliberations and external com-
munications about monetary policy.  Possible benefits 
include helping to clarify the factors that individual par-
ticipants judge most important in forming their views 
about the economic outlook and their assessments of 
appropriate monetary policy.  Two potential limitations 
of this approach are that the scenario descriptions must 
by necessity be incomplete, and the practical range of 
scenarios that can be examined may be insufficient to 
be informative, given the degree of uncertainty sur-
rounding possible outcomes.  Some participants stated 
that exercises using alternative scenarios, with appro-
priate adjustments, could potentially be helpful for in-
ternal deliberations and, thus, should be explored fur-
ther.  However, no decision was made at this meeting 
regarding future exercises along these lines. 
Developments in Financial Markets and the Fed-
eral Reserve’s Balance Sheet 
The Manager of the System Open Market Account 
(SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and 
foreign financial markets during the period since the 
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on 
March 13, 2012.  He also reported on System open 
market operations, including the ongoing reinvestment 
into agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities 
(MBS) of principal payments received on SOMA hold-
ings of agency debt and agency-guaranteed MBS as well 
as the operations related to the maturity extension pro-
gram authorized at the September 20–21, 2011, FOMC 
meeting.  By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified 
the Desk’s domestic transactions over the intermeeting 
period.  There were no intervention operations in for-
eign currencies for the System’s account over the in-
termeeting period. 
With Mr. Lacker dissenting, the Committee agreed to 
extend the reciprocal currency (swap) arrangements 
with the Bank of Canada and the Banco de México for 
an additional year beginning in mid-December 2012; 
these arrangements are associated with the Federal Re-
serve’s participation in the North American Framework 
Agreement of 1994.  The arrangement with the Bank of 
Canada allows for cumulative drawings of up to $2 bil-
lion equivalent, and the arrangement with the Banco de 
México allows for cumulative drawings of up to $3 bil-
lion equivalent.  The vote to renew the System’s partic-
ipation in these swap arrangements was taken at this 
meeting because a provision in the Framework Agree-
ment requires each party to provide six months’ prior 
notice of an intention to terminate its participation.  
Mr. Lacker dissented because of his opposition, as in-
dicated at the January meeting, to foreign exchange 
market intervention by the Federal Reserve, which such 
swap arrangements might facilitate, and because of his 
opposition to direct lending to foreign central banks. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation 
The information reviewed at the April 24–25 meeting 
suggested that economic activity was expanding mod-
erately.  Payroll employment continued to move up, 
and the unemployment rate, while still elevated, de-
clined a little further.  Overall consumer price inflation 
increased somewhat, primarily reflecting higher prices 
of crude oil and gasoline, but measures of long-run 
inflation expectations remained stable. 
The unemployment rate declined to 8.2 percent in 
March.  The share of workers employed part time for 
economic reasons also moved down, but the rate of 
long-duration unemployment remained elevated.  Pri-
vate nonfarm employment rose at a slower pace in 
March than in the preceding three months, while total 
government employment was little changed in recent 
months after declining last year.  Some indicators of 
job openings and firms’ hiring plans improved.  After 
being roughly flat over most of the intermeeting period, 
initial claims for unemployment insurance rose mod-
erately toward the end of the period but remained at a 
level consistent with further moderate job gains in the 
coming months. 
Manufacturing production expanded, on net, in Febru-
ary and March, while the rate of manufacturing capacity 
utilization was essentially unchanged.  In recent 
months, the production of motor vehicles continued to 
rise appreciably in response to both higher vehicle sales 
and dealers’ additions to relatively low levels of inven-
tories; output gains in other industries also were solid 
and widespread.  Motor vehicle assemblies were sched-
uled to step up further in the second quarter, and 
broader indicators of manufacturing activity, such as 
the diffusion indexes of new orders from the national 
and regional manufacturing surveys, were at levels con-
sistent with moderate increases in factory output in the 
second quarter. 
Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose 
briskly in February, even though households’ real dis-
posable incomes declined.  In March, nominal retail 
sales excluding purchases of motor vehicles increased 
solidly, while motor vehicle sales fell off a little from 
their brisk pace in the previous month.  Consumer sen-
timent was little changed, on balance, in March and 
early April and remained subdued. 
Some measures of home prices rose in January and 
February, but activity in the housing market continued 
to be held down by the large inventory of foreclosed 
and distressed properties and by tight underwriting 
standards for mortgage loans.  Starts of new single-
family homes fell back in February and March to a level 
more in line with permit issuance; starts were apparent-
ly boosted by unseasonably warm weather in December 
and January.  Moreover, sales of new and existing 
homes edged down, on net, in recent months. 
Real business expenditures on equipment and software 
appeared to rise modestly in the first quarter.  Nominal 
shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding air-
craft increased in February and March after declining in 
January; new orders for these capital goods increased, 
on balance, in February and March, and they continued 
to run above the level of shipments.  The buildup of 
unfilled orders in recent months, along with improve-
ments in survey measures of capital spending plans and 
some other forward-looking indicators, pointed toward 
a pickup in the pace of expenditures for business 
equipment.  In contrast, nominal business spending for 
nonresidential construction declined in January and 
February.  Inventories in most industries looked to be 
fairly well aligned with sales in recent months, although 
motor vehicle stocks were still relatively lean. 
Data for federal government spending in recent 
months indicated that real defense expenditures rose 
modestly in the first quarter.  Real state and local gov-
ernment purchases appeared to be about flat last quar-
ter, as the payrolls of these governments edged up in 
the first quarter and their nominal construction spend-
ing declined slightly, on net, in January and February. 
The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in Febru-
ary as exports rose and imports fell.  The export gains 
were concentrated in services.  Exports of goods de-
clined largely because of a decrease in exports of auto-
motive products.  The drop in imports reflected signifi-
cant declines in imports of petroleum products, auto-
motive products, capital goods, and consumer goods.  
Imports from China were especially weak, which may 
in part reflect seasonal adjustment issues related to the 
timing of the Chinese New Year. 
Overall U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE 
price index, rose at a somewhat faster rate in February 
than in the preceding six months.  In March, prices 
measured by the consumer price index increased at that 
same faster pace.  Consumer energy prices climbed 
markedly in February and March, although survey data 
indicated that gasoline prices stepped down in the first 
half of April.  Meanwhile, increases in consumer food 
prices were relatively subdued in recent months.  Con-
sumer prices excluding food and energy rose moderate-
ly in February and March.  Near-term inflation expecta-
tions from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michi-
gan Surveys of Consumers increased in March but then 
fell back in early April, while longer-term inflation ex-
pectations in the survey remained stable. 
Available measures of labor compensation indicated 
that nominal wage gains continued to be muted.  Aver-
age hourly earnings for all employees rose modestly in 
March, and their rate of increase from 12 months earli-
er remained low. 
Recent indicators suggested that foreign economic ac-
tivity improved on balance in the first quarter, but there 
were important differences across economies.  In the 
euro area, economic indicators pointed to weakening 
activity as financial stresses worsened, whereas in the 
emerging market economies, recent data were consis-
tent with continued expansion.  Readings on foreign 
inflation eased, although they were still relatively high 
in some Latin American countries. 
Staff Review of the Financial Situation 
Broad financial market conditions changed little, on 
balance, since the March FOMC meeting.  However, 
asset prices fluctuated substantially over the period, 
apparently in response to the evolving views on the 
U.S. and global economic outlook and changing expec-
tations regarding the future course of monetary policy. 
Yields on nominal Treasury securities moved up early 
in the period, reportedly as investors read incoming 
information, including the March FOMC statement 
and minutes along with the results of the Comprehen-
sive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), as suggesting 
a somewhat stronger economic outlook than previously 
expected.  Over subsequent weeks, however, yields 
drifted lower in response to disappointing economic 
news and increased concerns about the strains in Eu-
rope.  On net, nominal Treasury yields finished the 
period slightly lower and measures of the expected path 
for the federal funds rate derived from overnight index 
swap (OIS) rates moved down. 
Conditions in unsecured short-term dollar funding 
markets were stable over most of the intermeeting pe-
riod despite the increase in concerns about Europe in 
the latter part of the period.  In secured funding mar-
kets, the overnight general collateral Treasury repur-
chase agreement rate declined for a time late in the pe-
riod, reportedly in response to the seasonal reduction in 
Treasury bill issuance in April, but ended the period 
roughly unchanged. 
Broad U.S. stock price indexes followed the general 
pattern observed across asset markets, rising early in 
the period on increased investor optimism and then 
falling later on, to end the period little changed on net.  
Equity prices of financial institutions increased, report-
edly as investors interpreted the first-quarter earnings 
of several large banking organizations and the results of 
the CCAR as better than expected.  Yields and spreads 
on investment-grade corporate bonds were about un-
changed, but yields and spreads on speculative-grade 
corporate bonds increased somewhat. 
Businesses continued to raise substantial amounts of 
funds in credit and capital markets over recent months.  
Bond issuance by financial firms picked up further in 
March from the strong pace recorded in the previous 
two months.  Domestic nonfinancial firms’ bond is-
suance and growth in commercial and industrial (C&I) 
loans were robust in the first quarter.  Leveraged loan 
issuance was brisk over this period as well, reportedly 
supported by investor demand for newly issued collat-
eralized loan obligations as well as by interest from 
pension funds and other institutional investors.  Gross 
public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms stayed 
strong in March.  In contrast, financial conditions in 
the commercial real estate (CRE) sector remained 
strained amid weak fundamentals and tight underwrit-
ing conditions, and issuance of commercial mortgage-
backed securities in the first quarter of 2012 was below 
that of a year ago. 
With respect to credit to households, developments 
over the intermeeting period were mixed.  Although 
mortgage rates remained near their historical lows, 
mortgage refinancing activity was subdued, and condi-
tions in residential mortgage markets continued to be 
weak.  By contrast, consumer credit rose at a solid pace, 
on balance, in recent months; nonrevolving credit, par-
ticularly student loans, expanded.  Issuance of consum-
er asset-backed securities (ABS) edged up in recent 
months, supported by auto-loan ABS issuance. 
Gross issuance of long-term municipal bonds was sub-
dued in the first quarter.  The ratio of general obliga-
tion municipal bond yields to yields on comparable-
maturity Treasury securities was little changed over the 
intermeeting period, and the average spreads on credit 
default swaps for debt issued by states declined on net. 
Bank credit slowed in March but expanded at a solid 
pace in the first quarter as a whole.  The Senior Loan 
Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices 
conducted in April indicated that, in the aggregate, do-
mestic banks eased slightly their lending standards on 
core loans—C&I, real estate, and consumer loans—and 
experienced somewhat stronger demand for such loans 
in the first quarter of 2012.  C&I loans at domestic 
banks continued to expand in March, with growth con-
centrated at large domestic banks.  Banks’ holdings of 
closed-end residential mortgage loans expanded, while 
home equity loans and CRE loans continued to decline.  
Consumer loans on banks’ books rose modestly in 
March. 
M2 expanded at a moderate pace in March, reflecting 
growth in liquid deposits and currency that was only 
partially offset by declines in small time deposits and in 
balances in retail money market funds. 
Financial strains within the euro area increased over the 
intermeeting period.  Spreads of yields on sovereign 
Italian and Spanish debt over those on comparable-
maturity German bonds rose, amid official warnings 
that Spain would miss its fiscal target for this year and 
would need to make further budget cuts, as well as re-
newed concerns in the market about the prospects for 
Spanish banks.  Although the spread of the three-
month euro London interbank offered rate over the 
comparable OIS rate narrowed on balance over the 
period, euro-area bank equity indexes dropped sharply, 
driven by declines in the share prices of Spanish and 
Italian banks.  Five-year credit default swap premiums 
rose for a broad range of euro-area banks, especially 
Spanish banks. 
Against the background of these increased stresses 
within the euro area, foreign equity indexes declined 
and corporate credit spreads widened.  The staff’s 
broad nominal index of the foreign exchange value of 
the dollar was about unchanged over the intermeeting 
period as the dollar appreciated against most emerging 
market currencies but depreciated moderately against 
the yen and sterling.  Amid some volatility, yields on 
benchmark sovereign bonds for Germany and Japan 
ended the period somewhat lower.  Monetary policy 
abroad remained generally accommodative. 
The total outstanding amount on the Federal Reserve’s 
dollar liquidity swap lines declined to $32 billion, down 
from $65 billion at the time of the March FOMC meet-
ing; demand for dollars fell at the lending operations of 
the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan, and the 
Swiss National Bank.   
Staff Economic Outlook 
In the economic forecast prepared for the April FOMC 
meeting, the staff revised up slightly its near-term pro-
jection for real gross domestic product (GDP) growth, 
reflecting that the unemployment rate was a little lower, 
the level of overall payroll employment a bit higher, 
and consumer spending noticeably stronger than the 
staff had expected at the time of the previous forecast.  
However, the staff’s medium-term projection for real 
GDP growth in the April forecast was little changed 
from the one presented in March.  The staff continued 
to project that real GDP would accelerate gradually 
through 2014, supported by accommodative monetary 
policy, further improvements in credit availability, and 
rising consumer and business sentiment.  Increases in 
economic activity were expected to be sufficient to de-
crease the wide margin of slack in the labor market 
slowly over the projection period, but the unemploy-
ment rate was anticipated to still be elevated at the end 
of 2014. 
The staff’s forecast for inflation over the projection 
period was just a bit above the forecast prepared for 
the March FOMC meeting, reflecting somewhat high-
er-than-expected data on core consumer prices and a 
slightly narrower margin of economic slack than in the 
March forecast.  However, with the pass-through of the 
recent run-up in crude oil prices into consumer energy 
prices seen as nearly complete, oil prices expected to 
edge lower from current levels, substantial resource 
slack persisting over the projection period, and stable 
long-run inflation expectations, the staff continued to 
forecast that inflation would be subdued through 2014. 
Participants’ Views on Current Conditions and the 
Economic Outlook 
In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, meeting par-
ticipants—the five members of the Board of Gover-
nors and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve 
Banks, all of whom participate in the deliberations of 
the FOMC—submitted their assessments of real out-
put growth, the unemployment rate, inflation, and the 
target federal funds rate for each year from 2012 
through 2014 and over the longer run, under each par-
ticipant’s judgment of appropriate monetary policy.  
The longer-run projections represent each participant’s 
assessment of the rate to which each variable would be 
expected to converge, over time, under appropriate 
monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks 
to the economy.  These economic projections and poli-
cy assessments are described in more detail in the 
Summary of Economic Projections (SEP), which is 
attached as an addendum to these minutes. 
In their discussion of the economic situation and out-
look, meeting participants agreed that the information 
received since the Committee’s previous meeting sug-
gested that the economy continued to expand mod-
erately.  Labor market conditions improved in recent 
months.  So far this year, payroll employment had ex-
panded at a faster pace than last year and the unem-
ployment rate had declined further, although it re-
mained elevated.  Household spending and business 
fixed investment continued to expand.  There were 
signs of improvement in the housing sector, but from a 
very low level of activity.  Despite some volatility in 
financial markets over the intermeeting period, financial 
conditions in U.S. markets continued to improve; bank 
credit quality and loan demand both increased.  Mainly 
reflecting the increase in the prices of crude oil and 
gasoline earlier this year, inflation had picked up some-
what.  However, longer-term inflation expectations 
remained stable. 
Participants’ assessments of the economic outlook were 
little changed, with the intermeeting information gener-
ally seen as suggesting that economic growth would 
remain moderate over coming quarters and then pick 
up gradually.  Reflecting the moderate pace of econom-
ic growth, most anticipated a gradual decline in the un-
employment rate.  The incoming information led some 
participants to become more confident about the dura-
bility of the recovery.  However, others thought it was 
premature to infer a stronger underlying trend from the 
recent positive indicators, since those readings may 
partially reflect the effects of the mild winter weather 
or other temporary influences.  A number of factors 
continued to be seen as likely limiting the  economic 
expansion to a moderate pace in the near term; these 
included slow growth in some foreign economies, 
prospective fiscal tightening in the United States, slow 
household income growth, and—notwithstanding 
some recent signs of improvement—ongoing weakness 
in the housing market.  Participants continued to ex-
pect most of the factors restraining economic expan-
sion to ease over time and so anticipated that the re-
covery would gradually gain strength.  The strains in 
global financial markets, though generally less pro-
nounced than last fall, continued to pose a significant 
risk to the outlook, and the possibility of a sharp fiscal 
tightening in the United States was also considered a 
sizable risk.  Most participants anticipated that inflation 
would fall back from recent elevated levels as the ef-
fects of higher energy prices waned, and still expected 
that inflation subsequently would run at or below the   
2 percent rate that the Committee judges to be most 
consistent with its statutory mandate.  However, other 
participants saw upside risks to the inflation outlook 
given the recent pickup in inflation and the highly ac-
commodative stance of monetary policy. 
In discussing the household sector, meeting partici-
pants generally noted that consumer spending contin-
ued to expand moderately, notwithstanding high gaso-
line prices.  The recent strengthening in the pace of 
light motor vehicle sales was attributed to both pent-up 
demand and the desire for increased fuel efficiency in 
the wake of higher gasoline prices.  Looking forward, 
increases in household wealth from the rise in equity 
prices, improving consumer sentiment, and a diminish-
ing drag from household deleveraging were seen as 
helping to support continued increases in household 
expenditures, notwithstanding sluggish growth in real 
disposable income and restrictive fiscal policies. 
Recent housing-sector indicators, including sales and 
starts, suggested some upward movement, but some 
participants saw the improvement as likely related to 
unusually warm winter weather in much of the country.  
Overall, the level of activity in the sector remained de-
pressed.  House prices appeared to be stabilizing but 
had not yet begun to rise in most markets.  Most partic-
ipants anticipated that the housing sector was likely to 
recover only slowly over time, but a few were more 
optimistic about the potential for a more rapid housing 
recovery given reports of stronger demand in some 
regions and of improved sentiment among builders, as 
well as signs that recent changes to the Home Afforda-
ble Refinance Program were contributing to the refi-
nancing of performing high loan-to-value mortgages. 
Reports from business contacts indicated that activity 
in the manufacturing, energy, and agriculture sectors 
continued to advance in recent months.  Auto produc-
tion had picked up in light of strengthening demand.  
Business contacts suggested that sentiment was im-
proving, but many firms remained somewhat cautious 
in their hiring and investment decisions, with most cap-
ital investment being undertaken to improve productiv-
ity or gain market share rather than to expand capacity.  
Reportedly, this caution reflected in part continued 
uncertainty about the strength and durability of the 
economic recovery, as well as about government poli-
cies. 
Participants expected that the government sector 
would be a drag on economic growth over coming 
quarters.  They generally saw the U.S. fiscal situation 
also as a risk to the economic outlook; if agreement is 
not reached on a plan for the federal budget, a sharp 
fiscal tightening could occur at the start of 2013.  Sev-
eral participants indicated that uncertainty about the 
trajectory of future fiscal policy could lead businesses 
to defer hiring and investment. It was noted that 
agreement on a longer-term plan to address the coun-
try’s fiscal challenges would help to alleviate uncertainty 
and consequent negative effects on consumer and 
business sentiment. 
Exports have supported U.S. growth so far this year; 
however, some participants noted risks to the export 
picture from economic weakness in Europe or from a 
more significant slowdown in the pace of expansion in 
China and emerging Asia. 
Labor market conditions continued to improve, al-
though unusually warm weather may have inflated pay-
roll job figures somewhat earlier this year.  Contacts in 
some parts of the country said that highly qualified 
workers were in short supply; overall, however, wage 
pressures had been limited so far.  The decline in labor 
force participation, which has been sharpest for young-
er workers, has been a factor in the nearly 1 percentage 
point decline in the unemployment rate since last Au-
gust, a drop that was larger than would have been pre-
dicted from the historical relationship between real 
GDP growth and changes in the unemployment rate.  
Assessing the extent to which the changes in labor 
force participation reflect cyclical factors that will be 
reversed once the recovery picks up, as opposed to 
changes in the trend rate of participation, was seen as 
important for understanding unemployment dynamics 
going forward.  One participant cited research suggest-
ing that about half of the decline in labor force partici-
pation had reflected cyclical factors, and thus, as partic-
ipation picks up, unemployment may decline more 
slowly in coming quarters compared with the recent 
pace.  Another posited that the strength in payroll job 
growth in recent months may be a one-time reaction to 
the sharp layoffs in 2008 and 2009 and that future job 
gains may be somewhat weaker unless the pace of eco-
nomic growth increases.  Participants expressed a range 
of views on the extent to which the unemployment rate 
was being boosted by structural factors such as mis-
matches between the skills of unemployed workers and 
those being demanded by hiring firms.  A few partici-
pants acknowledged there could be structural factors at 
work, but said that in their view, slack remained high 
and weak aggregate demand was the major reason that 
unemployment was still elevated.  Two noted the pos-
sibility that sustained high levels of long-term unem-
ployment could result in higher structural unemploy-
ment, an outcome that might be forestalled by in-
creased aggregate demand.   A few participants noted 
that current measures of labor market slack would be 
overstated if structural factors accounted for a large 
portion of the current high levels of unemployment.  
As a result, such measures might be an unreliable guide 
as to how close the economy was to maximum em-
ployment.  These participants pointed out that, over 
time, estimates of the potential level of output have 
declined, reducing, as a consequence, estimates of the 
level of economic slack.  Some participants cited the 
recent rise in inflation, abstracting from the direct ef-
fect of the rise in energy prices, as supportive of the 
view that the level of slack was lower than some be-
lieve. 
Participants judged that, in general, conditions in do-
mestic credit markets had continued to improve since 
the March FOMC meeting.  Bank credit quality and 
consumer and business loan demand were increasing, 
although commercial and residential real estate lending 
remained relatively weak.  U.S. equity prices had risen 
early in the intermeeting period but subsequently de-
clined, ending the period little changed on net; invest-
ment-grade corporate bond yields were flat to down 
slightly and remained at very low levels.  Many U.S. 
financial institutions had been taking steps to bolster 
their resiliency, including increasing capital levels and 
liquidity buffers, and reducing their European expo-
sures.  A few participants indicated that they were see-
ing signs that very low interest rates might be inducing 
some investors to take on imprudent risks in the search 
for higher nominal returns.  In contrast to improved 
conditions in domestic credit markets, investors’ con-
cerns about the sovereign debt and banking situation in 
the euro area intensified during the intermeeting pe-
riod.  Some participants said they thought the policy 
actions taken in Europe would most likely ease stress in 
financial markets, but some expressed the view that a 
longer-term solution to the banking and fiscal problems 
in the euro area would require substantial further ad-
justment in the banking and public sectors.  Partici-
pants expected that global financial markets would re-
main focused on the evolving situation in Europe. 
Readings on consumer price inflation had picked up 
somewhat mainly because of increases in oil and gaso-
line prices earlier in the year.  In recent weeks, oil prices 
had begun to fall and readings from the oil futures 
market suggested this may continue; non-energy com-
modity prices had remained relatively stable.  Several 
participants noted that increases in labor costs contin-
ued to be subdued.  With longer-run inflation expecta-
tions well anchored and the unemployment rate ele-
vated, most participants anticipated that after the tem-
porary effect of the rise in oil and gasoline prices had 
run its course, inflation would be at or below the 2 per-
cent rate that the Committee judges to be most consis-
tent with its mandate.  Overall, most participants 
viewed the risks to their inflation outlook as being 
roughly balanced.  However, some participants saw a 
risk that inflation pressures could increase as the ex-
pansion continued; they pointed to the fact that infla-
tion was currently above target and were skeptical of 
models that rely on economic slack to forecast inflation 
partly because of the difficulty in measuring slack, es-
pecially in real time.  These participants were concerned 
that maintaining the current highly accommodative 
stance of monetary policy over the medium run could 
erode the stability of inflation expectations and risk 
higher inflation.  In this regard, one participant noted 
the potential risks and costs associated with additional 
balance sheet actions. 
In their discussion of the economic outlook and policy, 
some participants noted the potential usefulness of 
simple monetary policy rules, of the type the Commit-
tee regularly reviews, as guides for monetary policy de-
cisionmaking and for external communications about 
policy.  These participants suggested that because such 
rules give an indication of how policy should systemati-
cally respond to changes in economic conditions they 
might help clarify the relationship between appropriate 
monetary policy and the evolution of the economic 
outlook.  While acknowledging that there could be dif-
ferences across participants in the type of rules they 
might favor—for example, one participant expressed a 
preference for rules based on growth rates rather than 
output gaps because of measurement issues—a few 
participants indicated that the likely degree of commo-
nality across participants was suggestive that this might 
be a promising approach to explore.  However, a few 
other participants were more skeptical.  One thought 
that, while prescriptions from rules might provide use-
ful benchmarks, applying the rules mechanically and 
with little thought about the embedded assumptions 
would be counterproductive.  Another participant 
questioned the value of interest rate rules when the 
policy rate is constrained by the zero lower bound on 
nominal interest rates and unconventional policy op-
tions are being used, but others indicated they believed 
the rules could be appropriately adjusted to account for 
these factors.  Interest was expressed in examining the 
usefulness of simple policy rules in a more normal en-
vironment, as well as in the current environment in 
which the policy rate is at the zero lower bound and 
large-scale asset purchases and the maturity extension 
program have been implemented.  Participants planned 
to discuss further, at a future meeting, the potential 
merits and drawbacks of using simple rules as guides to 
monetary policy decisionmaking and for communica-
tions. 
Committee Policy Action 
Members viewed the information on U.S. economic 
activity received over the intermeeting period as sug-
gesting that the economy had been expanding mod-
erately and generally agreed that the economic outlook 
was broadly similar to that at the time of their March 
meeting.  Labor market conditions had improved in 
recent months, and the unemployment rate had fallen, 
but almost all of the members saw the unemployment 
rate as still elevated relative to levels that they viewed as 
consistent with the Committee’s mandate.  Growth was 
expected to be moderate over coming quarters and 
then to pick up over time.  Members expected the un-
employment rate to decline gradually.  Strains in global 
financial markets stemming from the sovereign debt 
and banking situation in Europe continued to pose sig-
nificant downside risks to economic activity both here 
and abroad.  The possibilities that U.S. fiscal policy 
would be more contractionary than anticipated and that 
uncertainty about fiscal policy could lead to a deferral 
of hiring and investment were other downside risks.  
Recent readings indicated that inflation remained above 
the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run target, primarily 
reflecting the increase in oil and gasoline prices seen 
earlier in the year.  With longer-term inflation expecta-
tions stable, most members anticipated that the in-
crease in inflation would prove temporary and that 
subsequently inflation would run at or below the rate 
that the Committee judges to be most consistent with 
its mandate.  However, one member thought that there 
were upside risks to inflation, especially if the current 
degree of highly accommodative monetary policy were 
maintained much beyond this year. 
In their discussion of monetary policy for the period 
ahead, the Committee members reached the collective 
judgment that it would be appropriate to maintain the 
existing highly accommodative stance of monetary pol-
icy.  In particular, the Committee agreed to keep the 
target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent, 
to continue the program of extending the average ma-
turity of the Federal Reserve’s holdings of securities as 
announced last September, and to retain the existing 
policies regarding the reinvestment of principal pay-
ments from Federal Reserve holdings of securities. 
With respect to the statement to be released following 
the meeting, members agreed that only relatively small 
modifications to the first two paragraphs were needed 
to reflect the incoming economic data and the modest 
changes to the economic outlook.  With the economic 
outlook over the medium term not greatly changed, 
almost all of the members again agreed to indicate that 
the Committee expects to maintain a highly accommo-
dative stance for monetary policy and currently antic-
ipates that economic conditions—including low rates 
of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for infla-
tion over the medium run—are likely to warrant excep-
tionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least 
through late 2014.  Most members continued to antic-
ipate that the unemployment rate would still be well 
above their estimates of its longer-run level, and infla-
tion would be at or below the Committee’s longer-run 
objective, in late 2014.  Some Committee members 
indicated that their policy judgment reflected in part 
their perception of downside risks to growth, especially 
since the Committee’s ability to respond to weaker-
than-expected economic conditions would be some-
what limited by the constraint imposed on monetary 
policy when the policy rate is near the zero lower 
bound.   The need to compensate for a substantial pe-
riod during which the policy rate was constrained by 
the zero bound was also cited by a few members as a 
possible reason to maintain a very low level of the fed-
eral funds rate for a longer period than would other-
wise be the case. 
While almost all of the members agreed that the change 
in the outlook over the intermeeting period was insuffi-
cient to warrant an adjustment to the Committee’s for-
ward guidance, particularly given the uncertainty sur-
rounding economic forecasts, it was noted that the 
forward guidance is conditional on economic develop-
ments and that the date given in the statement would 
be subject to revision should there be a significant 
change in the economic outlook.  Some members re-
called that gains in employment strengthened in early 
2010 and again in early 2011 only to diminish as those 
years progressed; moreover, the uncertain effects of the 
unusually mild winter weather were cited as making it 
harder to discern the underlying trend in the economic 
data.  They viewed these factors as reinforcing the case 
for leaving the forward guidance unchanged at this 
meeting and preferred adjusting the forward guidance 
only once they were more confident that the medium-
term economic outlook or risks to the outlook had 
changed significantly.  In contrast, another member 
thought that the forward guidance should be more res-
ponsive to changes in economic developments; that 
member suggested that the Committee would need to 
determine the appropriate threshold for altering the 
guidance. 
The Committee also stated that it will regularly review 
the size and composition of its securities holdings and 
is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate to 
promote a stronger economic recovery in a context of 
price stability.  Several members indicated that addi-
tional monetary policy accommodation could be neces-
sary if the economic recovery lost momentum or the 
downside risks to the forecast became great enough. 
Committee members discussed the desirability of pro-
viding more clarity about the economic conditions that 
would likely warrant maintaining the current target 
range for the federal funds rate and those that would 
indicate that a change in monetary policy was appropri-
ate.  Doing so might help the public better understand 
the conditionality in the Committee’s forward guidance.  
The Committee also discussed the relationship between 
the Committee’s statement, which expresses the collec-
tive view of the Committee, and the policy projections 
of individual participants, which are included in the 
SEP.  The Chairman asked the subcommittee on 
communications to consider possible enhancements 
and refinements to the SEP that might help better clari-
fy the link between economic developments and the 
Committee’s view of the appropriate stance of mone-
tary policy. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee 
voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to ex-
ecute transactions in the System Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive: 
“The Federal Open Market Committee seeks 
monetary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable 
growth in output.  To further its long-run 
objectives, the Committee seeks conditions 
in reserve markets consistent with federal 
funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  
The Committee directs the Desk to continue 
the maturity extension program it began in 
September to purchase, by the end of June 
2012, Treasury securities with remaining ma-
turities of approximately 6 years to 30 years 
with a total face value of $400 billion, and to 
sell Treasury securities with remaining matur-
ities of 3 years or less with a total face value 
of $400 billion.  The Committee also directs 
the Desk to maintain its existing policies of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities into 
new issues and of reinvesting principal pay-
ments on all agency debt and agency mort-
gage-backed securities in the System Open 
Market Account in agency mortgage-backed 
securities in order to maintain the total face 
value of domestic securities at approximately 
$2.6 trillion.  The Committee directs the 
Desk to engage in dollar roll transactions as 
necessary to facilitate settlement of the Fed-
eral Reserve’s agency MBS transactions.  The 
System Open Market Account Manager and 
the Secretary will keep the Committee in-
formed of ongoing developments regarding 
the System’s balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee’s 
objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability.” 
The vote encompassed approval of the statement be-
low to be released at 12:30 p.m.: 
“Information received since the Federal 
Open Market Committee met in March sug-
gests that the economy has been expanding 
moderately.  Labor market conditions have 
improved in recent months; the unemploy-
ment rate has declined but remains elevated.  
Household spending and business fixed in-
vestment have continued to advance.  De-
spite some signs of improvement, the hous-
ing sector remains depressed.  Inflation has 
picked up somewhat, mainly reflecting higher 
prices of crude oil and gasoline.  However, 
longer-term inflation expectations have re-
mained stable. 
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the 
Committee seeks to foster maximum em-
ployment and price stability.  The Committee 
expects economic growth to remain mod-
erate over coming quarters then to pick up 
gradually.  Consequently, the Committee an-
ticipates that the unemployment rate will de-
cline gradually toward levels that it judges to 
be consistent with its dual mandate.  Strains 
in global financial markets continue to pose 
significant downside risks to the economic 
outlook.  The increase in oil and gasoline 
prices earlier this year is expected to affect 
inflation only temporarily, and the Commit-
tee anticipates that subsequently inflation will 
run at or below the rate that it judges most 
consistent with its dual mandate. 
To support a stronger economic recovery 
and to help ensure that inflation, over time, 
is at the rate most consistent with its dual 
mandate, the Committee expects to maintain 
a highly accommodative stance for monetary 
policy.  In particular, the Committee decided 
today to keep the target range for the federal 
funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and currently 
anticipates that economic conditions—
including low rates of resource utilization 
and a subdued outlook for inflation over the 
medium run—are likely to warrant excep-
tionally low levels for the federal funds rate 
at least through late 2014. 
The Committee also decided to continue its 
program to extend the average maturity of its 
holdings of securities as announced in Sep-
tember.  The Committee is maintaining its 
existing policies of reinvesting principal 
payments from its holdings of agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in 
agency mortgage-backed securities and of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities at 
auction.  The Committee will regularly re-
view the size and composition of its securi
ties holdings and is prepared to adjust those 
holdings as appropriate to promote a strong-
er economic recovery in a context of price 
stability.” 
Voting for this action:  Ben Bernanke, William C. 
Dudley, Elizabeth Duke, Dennis P. Lockhart, Sandra 
Pianalto, Sarah Bloom Raskin, Daniel K. Tarullo, John 
C. Williams, and Janet L. Yellen. 
Voting against this action:  Jeffrey M. Lacker. 
Mr. Lacker dissented because he did not believe that 
economic conditions were likely to warrant exception-
ally low levels of the federal funds rate through late 
2014.  In his view, an increase in the federal funds rate 
was likely to be necessary by mid-2013 to prevent the 
emergence of inflationary pressures. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee 
would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, June 19–20, 
2012.  Because some participants had expressed a pref-
erence for the two-day format over the one-day format 
for FOMC meetings, the Chairman raised the possibili-
ty of revising the FOMC meeting schedule to incorpo-
rate more two-day meetings to allow additional time for 
discussion.  The meeting adjourned at 11:10 a.m. on 
April 25, 2012. 
Notation Vote 
By notation vote completed on April 2, 2012, the 
Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the 
FOMC meeting held on March 13, 2012. 
William B. English 
Secretary 
Summary of Economic Projections
In conjunction with the April 24–25, 2012, Federal 
Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, meeting 
participants—the members of the Board of Governors 
and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks, all of 
whom participate in the deliberations of the FOMC— 
submitted their assessments of real output growth, the 
unemployment rate, inflation, and the target federal 
funds rate for each year from 2012 through 2014 and 
over the longer run, under each participant’s judgment 
of appropriate monetary policy.  These assessments 
were based on information available at the time of the 
meeting and participants’ individual assumptions about 
factors likely to affect economic outcomes.  The long-
er-run projections represent each participant’s assess-
ment of the rate to which each variable would be ex-
pected to converge, over time, under appropriate mon-
etary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the 
economy.  “Appropriate monetary policy” is defined as 
the future path of policy that participants deem most 
likely to foster outcomes for economic activity and in-
flation that best satisfy their individual interpretations 
of the Federal Reserve’s objectives of maximum em-
ployment and stable prices. 
Overall, the assessments that FOMC participants sub-
mitted in April indicated that, with appropriate mone-
tary policy, the pace of economic recovery over the 
2012–14 period would likely continue to be moderate.  
As depicted in figure 1, participants judged that real 
gross domestic product (GDP) would rise this year at a 
rate that slightly exceeds their estimates of its longer-
run sustainable rate of increase, and then accelerate 
gradually through 2014.  Taking into account the de-
cline in the unemployment rate since the time of the 
previous Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) in 
January, participants generally anticipated only a small 
further reduction in the unemployment rate this year.  
They judged that the unemployment rate would then 
gradually move lower as economic growth picks up.  
Even so, participants generally projected that the un-
employment rate at the end of 2014 would still be well 
above their estimates of the longer-run rate of unem-
ployment that they currently view as being consistent 
with the FOMC’s statutory mandate for promoting 
maximum employment and price stability.  Most partic-
ipants judged that inflation, as measured by the annual 
change in the price index for personal consumption 
expenditures (PCE), would be at or below the FOMC’s 
long-run inflation objective of 2 percent under the as-
sumption of appropriate monetary policy.  Core infla-
tion was generally projected to run at rates similar to 
those of overall inflation. 
Relative to their previous projections in January, shown 
in table 1, participants revised up their projected rate of 
increase in real GDP in 2012 while marking down the 
pace of real growth over the next two years.  With the 
unemployment rate having declined in recent months 
Table 1.   Economic projections of Federal Reserve Board members and Federal Reserve Bank presidents, April 2012 
Percent    
Variable 
Central tendency1 Range2 
2012 2013 2014 Longer run 2012 2013 2014 Longer run 
Change in real GDP. . . . . . 2.4 to 2.9 2.7 to 3.1 3.1 to 3.6 2.3 to 2.6 2.1 to 3.0 2.4 to 3.8 2.9 to 4.3 2.2 to 3.0 
January projection. . . . . 2.2 to 2.7 2.8 to 3.2 3.3 to 4.0 2.3 to 2.6 2.1 to 3.0 2.4 to 3.8 2.8 to 4.3 2.2 to 3.0 
Unemployment rate. . . . . . 7.8 to 8.0 7.3 to 7.7 6.7 to 7.4 5.2 to 6.0 7.8 to 8.2 7.0 to 8.1 6.3 to 7.7 4.9 to 6.0 
January projection. . . . . 8.2 to 8.5 7.4 to 8.1 6.7 to 7.6 5.2 to 6.0 7.8 to 8.6 7.0 to 8.2 6.3 to 7.7 5.0 to 6.0 
PCE inflation. . . . . . . . . . .  1.9 to 2.0 1.6 to 2.0 1.7 to 2.0 2.0 1.8 to 2.3 1.5 to 2.1 1.5 to 2.2 2.0 
January projection. . . . . 1.4 to 1.8 1.4 to 2.0 1.6 to 2.0 2.0 1.3 to 2.5 1.4 to 2.3 1.5 to 2.1 2.0 
Core PCE inflation3. . . . . . 1.8 to 2.0 1.7 to 2.0 1.8 to 2.0 1.7 to 2.0 1.6 to 2.1 1.7 to 2.2 
January projection. . . . . 1.5 to 1.8 1.5 to 2.0 1.6 to 2.0 1.3 to 2.0 1.4 to 2.0 1.4 to 2.0 
      NOTE:  Projections of change in real gross domestic product (GDP) and projections for both measures of inflation are from the fourth quarter of the pre-
vious year to the fourth quarter of the year indicated.  PCE inflation and core PCE inflation are the percentage rates of change in, respectively, the price index 
for personal consumption expenditures (PCE) and the price index for PCE excluding food and energy.  Projections for the unemployment rate are for the aver-
age civilian unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of the year indicated.  Each participant’s projections are based on his or her assessment of appropriate 
monetary policy.  Longer-run projections represent each participant’s assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge under ap-
propriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy.  The January projections were made in conjunction with the meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee on January 24–25, 2012. 
   1.  The central tendency excludes the three highest and three lowest projections for each variable in each year. 
   2.  The range for a variable in a given year includes all participants’ projections, from lowest to highest, for that variable in that year. 
   3.  Longer-run projections for core PCE inflation are not collected. 
Page 1
3
2
1
+
0
1
2
3
4
Percent
Figure 1. Central tendencies and ranges of economic projections, 2012–14 and over the longer run  
Change in real GDP
Range of projections
Actual
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Longer
run
Central tendency of projections
5
6
7
8
9
Percent
Unemployment rate
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Longer
run
1
2
3
Percent
PCE inflation
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Longer
run
1
2
3
Percent
Core PCE inflation
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
NOTE: Definitions of variables are in the notes to table 1. The data for the actual values of the variables are annual. 
by more than participants had anticipated in the pre-
vious SEP, they generally lowered their projections for 
the level of the unemployment rate over coming years.  
Participants’ expectations for both the longer-run rate 
of increase in real GDP and the longer-run unemploy-
ment rate were little changed from January.  Their pro-
jection for the rate of inflation in 2012 moved up since 
January, reportedly in light of the recent increases in 
the prices of crude oil and gasoline, with much smaller 
increases in their projections for 2013 and 2014.  The 
range and central tendency of the projections of longer-
run inflation remained equal to 2 percent. 
As shown in figure 2, most participants judged that 
highly accommodative monetary policy was likely to be 
warranted over coming years to promote a stronger 
economic recovery in the context of price stability.  In 
particular, with inflation generally projected to be sub-
dued over the projection period and the unemployment 
rate elevated, 11 participants thought that it would be 
appropriate for the first increase in the target federal 
funds rate to occur during 2014 or later, the same 
number as in the January SEP (upper panel).  However, 
in contrast to their assessments in January, none of the 
participants indicated that 2016 was the appropriate 
year to first increase the target federal funds rate.  The 
remaining 6 participants judged that it would be appro-
priate to raise the federal funds rate in 2012 or 2013 in 
order to avoid a buildup of inflationary pressures or the 
creation of imbalances in the financial system.  Each 
participant’s individual assessment of the appropriate 
year-end level of the target federal funds rate over the 
projection period was substantially below his or her 
projection of the longer-run level of the federal funds 
rate (lower panel).  In addition, 9 participants placed 
the target federal funds rate at 1 percent or lower at the 
end of 2014. 
All participants indicated that they expected the Federal 
Reserve’s balance sheet would be normalized in a man-
ner consistent with the principles that the FOMC 
agreed on at its June 2011 meeting, with the date that 
participants gave for the onset of the normalization 
process dependent on their expected timing of the first 
increase in the target federal funds rate.  One partici-
pant reported that appropriate policy would include 
additional balance sheet actions in the near term to  
mitigate downside risks to economic growth. 
Most participants judged the level of uncertainty asso-
ciated with their projections for real activity, the unem-
ployment rate, and inflation to be unusually high rela-
tive to historical norms, although the number of partic-
ipants doing so declined somewhat since the January 
SEP.  About half of the participants now see the risks 
to real GDP growth as weighted to the downside and 
those to the unemployment rate as weighted to the up-
side, also down somewhat from the previous SEP.  As 
in January, a majority of participants viewed the risks to 
their inflation projections as broadly balanced. 
The Outlook for Economic Activity 
Under appropriate monetary policy, participants con-
tinued to judge that the economy would expand at a 
moderate pace over the projection period.  The central 
tendency of participants’ projections for the change in 
real GDP growth in 2012 was 2.4 to 2.9 percent, a bit 
higher than in January.  Growth at this rate would be a 
noticeable pickup from the pace of expansion in 2011 
and a little above most participants’ assessments of 
trend growth over the longer run.  Most participants 
characterized the incoming data on consumer spend-
ing—especially for motor vehicles—as being at least 
somewhat stronger than had been anticipated in Janu-
ary, and several also pointed to some encouraging signs 
in recent readings on housing activity.  A few partici-
pants indicated they had seen some improvements in 
household and business confidence.  Participants pro-
jected that real GDP growth would pick up gradually 
over the 2013–14 period.  Economic growth would be 
supported by monetary policy accommodation as well 
as some gradual improvements in credit conditions, the 
housing sector, and household balance sheets.  The 
central tendencies of participants’ projections of real 
growth in 2013 and 2014 were 2.7 to 3.1 percent and 
3.1 to 3.6 percent, respectively, down somewhat from 
the central tendencies of the January projections.  The 
central tendency of participants’ projections for the 
longer-run rate of increase of real GDP was 2.3 to     
2.6 percent, unchanged from January. 
Participants cited several factors that would likely con-
tinue to restrain the pace of economic expansion over 
the projection period.  In particular, tighter fiscal policy 
seemed likely to impart a significant drag on economic 
activity for a time.  Moreover, uncertainty about the 
fiscal environment could hold back both household 
spending on durable goods and business capital ex-
penditures.  In addition, some participants noted that 
the recent stronger data might reflect temporary fac-
tors.  For example, the pace of consumer spending was 
seen as likely to fall back some and be more in line with 
that of disposable personal income, and federal outlays 
were not expected to continue at their recent pace.  
Moreover, a couple of participants also pointed to the 
unseasonably warm winter weather as a possible con-
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of April 24–25, 2012 Page 3
3
2012
3
2013
7
2014
4
2015
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2012 2013 2014 Longer run
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
Target federal funds rate at year-end
            Figure 2. Overview of FOMC participants’ assessments of appropriate monetary policy, April 2012 
                  Appropriate timing of policy firming                    Number of participants 
 Appropriate pace of policy firming                          Percent 
NOTE:  In the upper panel, the height of each bar denotes the number of FOMC participants who judge that, under appropriate monetary policy, 
the first increase in the target federal funds rate from its current range of 0 to ¼ percent will occur in the specified calendar year.  In January 2012, 
the numbers of FOMC participants who judged that the first increase in the target federal funds rate would occur in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, and 
2016 were, respectively, 3, 3, 5, 4, and 2.  In the lower panel, each shaded circle indicates the value (rounded to the nearest ¼ percent) of an 
individual participant’s judgment of the appropriate level of the target federal funds rate at the end of the specified calendar year or over the 
longer run. 
m1vsh00
Typewritten Text
m1vsh00
Typewritten Text
m1vsh00
Typewritten Text
m1vsh00
Typewritten Text
m1vsh00
Typewritten Text
tributor to the more favorable tone to the recent in-
coming data. 
Most participants marked down their projections for 
the rate of unemployment over the projection period.  
The unemployment rate had declined from 8.7 percent, 
on average, in the final quarter of last year to 8.2 per-
cent at the end of the first quarter of 2012, more than 
most participants anticipated when they prepared their 
January projections.  With real GDP expected to in-
crease at a moderate pace, the unemployment rate was 
projected to decline only a bit further this year, with the 
central tendency of participants’ forecasts at 7.8 to    
8.0 percent at year-end.  Participants projected that in 
2013 and 2014, the pickup in the pace of the expansion 
would be accompanied by a further gradual improve-
ment in labor market conditions.  The central tendency 
of participants’ forecasts for the unemployment rate 
was 7.3 to 7.7 percent at the end of 2013 and 6.7 to   
7.4 percent at the end of 2014.  The central tendency of 
participants’ estimates of the longer-run normal rate of 
unemployment that would prevail in the absence of 
further shocks to the economy was 5.2 to 6.0 percent, 
unchanged from January.  Most participants anticipated 
that five or six years would be required to close the gap 
between the current unemployment rate and their esti-
mates of the longer-run rate, although a few anticipated 
that less time would be needed. 
The diversity of participants’ projections for real GDP 
growth and the unemployment rate over the next three 
years and over the longer run is depicted in figures 3.A 
and 3.B.  The dispersion in these projections reflects 
differences in participants’ assessments of many fac-
tors, including appropriate monetary policy and its ef-
fects on the economy, the underlying momentum in 
economic activity, the likely evolution of credit and 
financial market conditions, the prospective path for 
U.S. fiscal policy, the effects of the European situation, 
and the extent to which current dislocations in the la-
bor market were structural versus cyclical.  Given the 
decline in the rate of unemployment in the first quarter, 
the distribution of participants’ projections of this vari-
able for the fourth quarter of 2012 shifted noticeably 
lower, and the range of these projections became con-
siderably narrower, relative to the January assessments.  
The distributions of the unemployment rate projections 
for 2013 and 2014 exhibited less pronounced shifts 
toward lower rates.  Participants made only minor ad-
justments to their projections of the rates of output 
growth and unemployment over the longer run, leaving 
the dispersions of their projections for both little 
changed.  As in January, the dispersion of estimates for 
the longer-run rate of output growth is fairly narrow, 
with only one participant’s estimate outside of a range 
of 2.2 to 2.7 percent.  By comparison, participants’ 
views about the level to which the unemployment rate 
would converge in the longer run are more diverse, 
reflecting, among other things, different views on the 
outlook for labor supply and the structure of the labor 
market. 
The Outlook for Inflation 
Participants’ views about the outlook for inflation gen-
erally firmed a little since January.  In particular, a ma-
jority of participants indicated that the incoming read-
ings on inflation, especially for the prices of crude oil 
and gasoline, were a little higher than had been antic-
ipated.  Nonetheless, assuming no further shocks, most 
participants judged that both headline and core infla-
tion would remain subdued over the 2012–14 period, 
running at rates at or below the FOMC’s longer-run 
objective of 2 percent under the assumption of appro-
priate monetary policy.  Participants pointed to several 
factors that would help restrain inflation pressures over 
the projection period, including expected declines in 
commodity prices, modest increases in business costs, 
and the ongoing stability of inflation expectations.  
Specifically, the central tendency of participants’ projec-
tions for inflation, as measured by the PCE price index, 
moved up in 2012 to 1.9 to 2.0 percent, and it edged up 
in 2013 and 2014 to 1.6 to 2.0 percent and 1.7 to       
2.0 percent, respectively; the central tendencies of the 
forecasts for core PCE inflation were very close to 
those for the total measure.  Participants indicated that 
it would take about five or six years, or less, for infla-
tion to converge to its longer-run level.  
Information about the diversity of participants’ views 
regarding the outlook for inflation is provided in fig-
ures 3.C and 3.D.  Relative to the assessments that were 
compiled in January and reflecting the recent incoming 
data, the projections for inflation shifted higher in 2012 
and exhibited a noticeably narrower range.  The disper-
sion of inflation projections also narrowed in 2013, 
although to a lesser degree, and was little changed in 
2014.  In general, the dispersion of views on the out-
look for inflation over the projection period 
represented differences in judgments regarding a range 
of issues, including the current degree of slack in re-
source utilization and the extent to which such slack 
influences inflation and inflation expectations.  In addi-
tion, participants differed in their estimates of how the 
stance of monetary policy would influence inflation 
expectations. 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of April 24–25, 2012 Page 5
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 3.A. Distribution of participants’ projections for the change in real GDP, 2012–14 and over the longer run  
2012
January projections
2.0-
2.1 
2.2-
2.3 
2.4-
2.5 
2.6-
2.7 
2.8-
2.9 
3.0-
3.1 
3.2-
3.3 
3.4-
3.5 
3.6-
3.7 
3.8-
3.9 
4.0-
4.1 
4.2-
4.3 
Percent range
April projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2013
2.0-
2.1 
2.2-
2.3 
2.4-
2.5 
2.6-
2.7 
2.8-
2.9 
3.0-
3.1 
3.2-
3.3 
3.4-
3.5 
3.6-
3.7 
3.8-
3.9 
4.0-
4.1 
4.2-
4.3 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2014
2.0-
2.1 
2.2-
2.3 
2.4-
2.5 
2.6-
2.7 
2.8-
2.9 
3.0-
3.1 
3.2-
3.3 
3.4-
3.5 
3.6-
3.7 
3.8-
3.9 
4.0-
4.1 
4.2-
4.3 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Longer run
2.0-
2.1 
2.2-
2.3 
2.4-
2.5 
2.6-
2.7 
2.8-
2.9 
3.0-
3.1 
3.2-
3.3 
3.4-
3.5 
3.6-
3.7 
3.8-
3.9 
4.0-
4.1 
4.2-
4.3 
Percent range
NOTE: Definitions of variables are in the general note to table 1. 
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 3.B. Distribution of participants’ projections for the unemployment rate, 2012–14 and over the longer run  
2012
January projections
4.8-
4.9 
5.0-
5.1 
5.2-
5.3 
5.4-
5.5 
5.6-
5.7 
5.8-
5.9 
6.0-
6.1 
6.2-
6.3 
6.4-
6.5 
6.6-
6.7 
6.8-
6.9 
7.0-
7.1 
7.2-
7.3 
7.4-
7.5 
7.6-
7.7 
7.8-
7.9 
8.0-
8.1 
8.2-
8.3 
8.4-
8.5 
8.6-
8.7 
Percent range
April projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2013
4.8-
4.9 
5.0-
5.1 
5.2-
5.3 
5.4-
5.5 
5.6-
5.7 
5.8-
5.9 
6.0-
6.1 
6.2-
6.3 
6.4-
6.5 
6.6-
6.7 
6.8-
6.9 
7.0-
7.1 
7.2-
7.3 
7.4-
7.5 
7.6-
7.7 
7.8-
7.9 
8.0-
8.1 
8.2-
8.3 
8.4-
8.5 
8.6-
8.7 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2014
4.8-
4.9 
5.0-
5.1 
5.2-
5.3 
5.4-
5.5 
5.6-
5.7 
5.8-
5.9 
6.0-
6.1 
6.2-
6.3 
6.4-
6.5 
6.6-
6.7 
6.8-
6.9 
7.0-
7.1 
7.2-
7.3 
7.4-
7.5 
7.6-
7.7 
7.8-
7.9 
8.0-
8.1 
8.2-
8.3 
8.4-
8.5 
8.6-
8.7 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Longer run
4.8-
4.9 
5.0-
5.1 
5.2-
5.3 
5.4-
5.5 
5.6-
5.7 
5.8-
5.9 
6.0-
6.1 
6.2-
6.3 
6.4-
6.5 
6.6-
6.7 
6.8-
6.9 
7.0-
7.1 
7.2-
7.3 
7.4-
7.5 
7.6-
7.7 
7.8-
7.9 
8.0-
8.1 
8.2-
8.3 
8.4-
8.5 
8.6-
8.7 
Percent range
NOTE: Definitions of variables are in the general note to table 1. 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of April 24–25, 2012 Page 7
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 3.C. Distribution of participants’ projections for PCE inflation, 2012–14 and over the longer run  
2012
January projections
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
2.3-
2.4 
2.5-
2.6 
Percent range
April projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2013
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
2.3-
2.4 
2.5-
2.6 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2014
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
2.3-
2.4 
2.5-
2.6 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Longer run
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
2.3-
2.4 
2.5-
2.6 
Percent range
NOTE: Definitions of variables are in the general note to table 1. 
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 3.D. Distribution of participants’ projections for core PCE inflation, 2012–14  
2012
January projections
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
Percent range
April projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2013
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2014
1.3-
1.4 
1.5-
1.6 
1.7-
1.8 
1.9-
2.0 
2.1-
2.2 
Percent range
NOTE: Definitions of variables are in the general note to table 1. 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of April 24–25, 2012 Page 9
Appropriate Monetary Policy 
About half of the participants judged that exceptionally 
low levels of the federal funds rate would remain ap-
propriate at least until late 2014.  In particular, seven 
participants viewed appropriate policy firming as com-
mencing during 2014, while four others judged that the 
first increase in the target federal funds rate would not 
be warranted until 2015.  Nine participants anticipated 
that the appropriate federal funds rate at the end of 
2014 would be 1 percent or lower.  Those who saw the 
first increase occurring in 2015 anticipated that the fed-
eral funds rate would be either 1 percent or 1½ percent 
at the end of that year.  In contrast, six participants 
judged that an increase in the target federal funds rate 
would be appropriate in 2012 or 2013, and those partic-
ipants anticipated that the target rate would need to be 
increased to around 2 to 2¾ percent by the end of 
2014.  All participants reported levels for the appropri-
ate target federal funds rate at the end of 2014 that 
were well below their estimates of the level expected to 
prevail in the longer run.  Participants’ estimates of the 
longer-run target federal funds rate ranged from 3½ to 
4½ percent, reflecting the Committee’s inflation objec-
tive of 2 percent and participants’ individual judgments 
about the longer-run equilibrium level of the real feder-
al funds rate. 
Several key factors informed participants’ individual 
expectations about the appropriate setting for monetary 
policy, including their assessments of the maximum 
level of employment, the Committee’s longer-run infla-
tion objective, the extent to which current conditions 
had deviated from these mandate-consistent levels and 
why the deviations had arisen, and their projections of 
the likely time periods required to return employment 
and inflation to  levels they judge to be most consistent 
with the Committee’s mandate.  Several participants 
commented that their assessments took into account 
the risks and uncertainties associated with their out-
looks for economic activity and inflation, and one 
pointed specifically to the potential effects of a pro-
tracted period of very low interest rates on financial 
stability.  Participants also noted that because the ap-
propriate stance of monetary policy depends impor-
tantly on the evolution of real activity and inflation 
over time, their assessments of the appropriate future 
path of the federal funds rate would change if econom-
ic conditions were to evolve in an unexpected manner. 
Participants also provided qualitative information on 
their views regarding the appropriate path of the Fed-
eral Reserve’s balance sheet.  All participants expect 
that the Committee would carry out the normalization 
of the balance sheet according to the principles ap-
proved at the June 2011 FOMC meeting.  That is, prior 
to the first increase in the federal funds rate, the Com-
mittee would likely cease reinvesting some or all prin-
cipal payments on securities in the System Open Mar-
ket Account (SOMA), and it would likely begin sales of 
agency securities from the SOMA sometime after the 
first rate increase, aiming to eliminate the SOMA’s 
holdings of agency securities over a period of three to 
five years.  In general, the participants linked their pre-
ferred start dates for the normalization process to their 
views for the appropriate timing for the first increase in 
the target federal funds rate.  Two participants judged 
that once begun, asset sales should proceed relatively 
quickly, while one participant’s assessment of appropri-
ate monetary policy incorporated an expansion of the 
maturity extension program in the near term.  In addi-
tion, some participants indicated that they remained 
open to considering additional policy-related adjust-
ments to the balance sheet if the economic outlook 
deteriorated. 
The distribution of participants’ judgments regarding 
the appropriate level of the target federal funds rate at 
the end of each calendar year from 2012 to 2014 and 
over the longer run is presented in figure 3.E.  Partici-
pants’ views on the appropriate level of the federal 
funds rate at the end of 2014 continued to be relatively 
widely dispersed, with seven participants seeing the 
appropriate level of the federal funds rate at that time 
as most likely to be 50 basis points or less and seven 
seeing the appropriate rate as 2 percent or higher.  Rel-
ative to the other participants, the group of participants 
who judged that a longer period of exceptionally low 
levels of the federal funds rate would be appropriate 
tended to include those who anticipated a somewhat 
more gradual increase in the pace of the economic ex-
pansion and a slower decline in the unemployment rate 
over the projection period.  Some of these participants 
also mentioned their assessment that a longer period of 
exceptionally low federal funds rates is appropriate 
when the federal funds rate has previously been con-
strained by its effective lower bound.  In contrast, the 
six participants who judged that policy firming should 
begin in 2012 or 2013 included some who projected a 
somewhat faster pickup in economic activity over the 
near term.  Participants seeing an earlier increase in the 
target federal funds rate tended to indicate that the 
Committee would need to begin removing policy ac-
commodation relatively soon in order to keep inflation 
at mandate-consistent levels and to limit the risk of 
undermining the Federal Reserve’s credibility and caus-
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 3.E. Distribution of participants’ projections for the target federal funds rate, 2012–14 and over the longer run  
2012
January projections
0.00-
0.37 
0.38-
0.62 
0.63-
0.87 
0.88-
1.12 
1.13-
1.37 
1.38-
1.62 
1.63-
1.87 
1.88-
2.12 
2.13-
2.37 
2.38-
2.62 
2.63-
2.87 
2.88-
3.12 
3.13-
3.37 
3.38-
3.62 
3.63-
3.87 
3.88-
4.12 
4.13-
4.37 
4.38-
4.62 
Percent range
April projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2013
0.00-
0.37 
0.38-
0.62 
0.63-
0.87 
0.88-
1.12 
1.13-
1.37 
1.38-
1.62 
1.63-
1.87 
1.88-
2.12 
2.13-
2.37 
2.38-
2.62 
2.63-
2.87 
2.88-
3.12 
3.13-
3.37 
3.38-
3.62 
3.63-
3.87 
3.88-
4.12 
4.13-
4.37 
4.38-
4.62 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
2014
0.00-
0.37 
0.38-
0.62 
0.63-
0.87 
0.88-
1.12 
1.13-
1.37 
1.38-
1.62 
1.63-
1.87 
1.88-
2.12 
2.13-
2.37 
2.38-
2.62 
2.63-
2.87 
2.88-
3.12 
3.13-
3.37 
3.38-
3.62 
3.63-
3.87 
3.88-
4.12 
4.13-
4.37 
4.38-
4.62 
Percent range
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Longer run
0.00-
0.37 
0.38-
0.62 
0.63-
0.87 
0.88-
1.12 
1.13-
1.37 
1.38-
1.62 
1.63-
1.87 
1.88-
2.12 
2.13-
2.37 
2.38-
2.62 
2.63-
2.87 
2.88-
3.12 
3.13-
3.37 
3.38-
3.62 
3.63-
3.87 
3.88-
4.12 
4.13-
4.37 
4.38-
4.62 
Percent range
NOTE: The target federal funds rate is measured as the level of the target rate at the end of the calendar year or in the longer run. 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of April 24–25, 2012 Page 11
ing a rise in inflation expectations.  One of these partic-
ipants also stressed the risk of distortions in the finan-
cial system from an extended period of exceptionally 
low interest rates. 
Uncertainty and Risks 
Most participants judged that their projections for real 
GDP growth and the unemployment rate were subject 
to a higher level of uncertainty than was the norm dur-
ing the previous 20 years (figure 4).1  However, the 
number reporting elevated uncertainty moved down 
somewhat relative to the January SEP.  Many partici-
pants also judged the levels of uncertainty associated 
with their inflation forecasts to be higher than the 
longer-run historical norm, but such an assessment 
continued to be somewhat less prevalent among partic-
ipants than was the case for uncertainty about real ac-
tivity.  Several factors were said to be contributing to 
the elevated level of uncertainty about the economic 
outlook, including ongoing developments regarding the 
fiscal and financial situation in Europe.  Many partici-
pants also cited considerable uncertainty about U.S. 
fiscal policy over coming quarters and its potential im-
plications for economic activity.  More broadly, partici-
pants again noted difficulties in projecting the path of 
the economic recovery because deep recessions 
brought on by severe financial crises differed impor-
tantly from most historical experience.  In that regard, 
participants continued to be uncertain about the pace at 
which credit conditions would improve and about the 
prospects for recovery in the housing sector.  In addi-
tion, participants generally saw the longer-term outlook 
for fiscal and regulatory policies as still highly uncer-
tain.  Some participants also expressed uncertainty 
about the extent to which the labor market was under-
going structural changes.  Among the sources of uncer-
tainty about the outlook for inflation were the difficul-
ties in assessing the current and prospective margins of 
slack in resource markets and the effect of such slack 
on prices.  Participants also cited uncertainty about the 
future path of global commodity prices, which were 
seen as depending on idiosyncratic supply and demand 
factors as well as on global growth. 
1 Table 2 provides estimates of the forecast uncertainty for 
the change in real GDP, the unemployment rate, and total 
consumer price inflation over the period from 1992 to 2011.  
At the end of this summary, the box “Forecast Uncertainty” 
discusses the sources and interpretation of uncertainty in the 
economic forecasts and explains the approach used to assess 
the uncertainty and risks attending the participants’ projec-
tions. 
Turning to the balance of risks that participants at-
tached to their economic projections, about half re-
ported that they judged the risks to their forecasts of 
both real GDP growth and the unemployment rate as 
broadly balanced, a few more than was the case in Jan-
uary.  Nearly all of the remaining participants viewed 
the risks to real GDP growth as weighted to the down-
side and the risks to the unemployment rate as skewed 
to the upside.  Participants identified several downside 
risks to the projected pace of economic expansion, in-
cluding the fiscal and financial strains in the euro area 
and the possibility of an abrupt fiscal consolidation in 
the United States.  In addition, some of the factors that 
had restrained the U.S. recovery in recent years could 
persist for longer than currently expected and thus 
weigh on economic activity to a greater extent going 
forward than participants had assumed in their baseline 
forecasts.  In particular, some participants mentioned 
the downside risks to consumer spending in light of 
meager gains in disposable personal income and 
households’ still-weak balance sheets.  Others cited the 
possible damping effects of high levels of uncertainty 
regarding regulatory policies on businesses’ willingness 
to invest and hire.  A few participants noted the risk of 
another disruption in global oil markets or greater ten-
sions in the Middle East that could not only boost in-
flation but also reduce real incomes, consumer confi-
dence, and spending.  Some of the participants who 
judged the risks to be broadly balanced recognized 
some of these downside risks to the outlook, but they 
saw them as about counterbalanced by the chance that 
the recent signs of improvement in labor markets and 
Table 2.   Average historical projection error ranges  
Percentage points 
Variable 2012 2013 2014 
Change in real GDP1 . . . . . . . . ±1.1 ±1.6 ±1.7 
Unemployment rate1 . . . . . . . . ±0.5 ±1.2 ±1.7 
Total consumer prices2 . . . . . . ±0.8 ±1.0 ±1.0 
NOTE:  Error ranges shown are measured as plus or minus the root 
mean squared error of projections for 1992 through 2011 that were 
released in the spring by various private and government forecasters.  As 
described in the box “Forecast Uncertainty,” under certain assumptions, 
there is about a 70 percent probability that actual outcomes for real 
GDP, unemployment, and consumer prices will be in ranges implied by 
the average size of projection errors made in the past. Further informa-
tion is in David Reifschneider and Peter Tulip (2007), “Gauging the 
Uncertainty of the Economic Outlook from Historical Forecasting 
Errors,” Finance and Economics Discussion Series 2007-60 (Washing-
ton:  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, November).  
1.  For definitions, refer to general note in table 1. 
2. Measure is the overall consumer price index, the price measure 
that has been most widely used in government and private economic 
forecasts.  Projection is percent change, fourth quarter of the previous 
year to the fourth quarter of the year indicated. 
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Figure 4. Uncertainty and risks in economic projections  
Uncertainty about GDP growth
January projections
Lower Broadly
similar
Higher
April projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Uncertainty about the unemployment rate
Lower Broadly
similar
Higher
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Uncertainty about PCE inflation
Lower Broadly
similar
Higher
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Uncertainty about core PCE inflation
Lower Broadly
similar
Higher
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Risks to GDP growth
January projections
Weighted to
downside
Broadly
balanced
Weighted to
upside
April projections
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Risks to the unemployment rate
Weighted to
downside
Broadly
balanced
Weighted to
upside
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Risks to PCE inflation
Weighted to
downside
Broadly
balanced
Weighted to
upside
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Number of participants
Risks to core PCE inflation
Weighted to
downside
Broadly
balanced
Weighted to
upside
NOTE: For definitions of uncertainty and risks in economic projections, see the box “Forecast Uncertainty.” Definitions of variables are in the general
note to table 1. 
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of April 24–25, 2012 Page 13
consumer spending could signal the emergence of a 
more vigorous recovery. 
Most participants judged the risks to their projections 
of inflation as broadly balanced, including a few more 
than held that view in January.  However, a few saw the 
risks as tilted to the upside, pointing to the possibility 
of disruptions in global oil and commodity markets or 
to effects from the current stance of monetary policy.  
Two of these participants indicated that the current 
highly accommodative stance of monetary policy and 
the substantial liquidity currently in the financial system 
risked a pickup in inflation to a level above the Com-
mittee’s longer-run objective, or cited the risk that un-
certainty about the Committee’s ability to effectively 
remove policy accommodation when appropriate could 
lead to a rise in inflation expectations. 
Forecast Uncertainty 
The economic projections provided by 
the members of the Board of Governors and 
the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
inform discussions of monetary policy among 
policymakers and can aid public understand-
ing of the basis for policy actions.  Consider-
able uncertainty attends these projections, 
however.  The economic and statistical models 
and relationships used to help produce eco-
nomic forecasts are necessarily imperfect de-
scriptions of the real world, and the future 
path of the economy can be affected by myr-
iad unforeseen developments and events.  
Thus, in setting the stance of monetary policy, 
participants consider not only what appears to 
be the most likely economic outcome as em-
bodied in their projections, but also the range 
of alternative possibilities, the likelihood of 
their occurring, and the potential costs to the 
economy should they occur. 
Table 2 summarizes the average historical 
accuracy of a range of forecasts, including 
those reported in past Monetary Policy Reports 
and those prepared by the Federal Reserve 
Board’s staff in advance of meetings of the 
Federal Open Market Committee.  The pro-
jection error ranges shown in the table il-
lustrate the considerable uncertainty associated 
with economic forecasts.  For example, sup-
pose a participant projects that real gross do-
mestic product (GDP) and total consumer 
prices will rise steadily at annual rates of, re-
spectively, 3 percent and 2 percent.  If the 
uncertainty attending those projections is simi-
lar to that experienced in the past and the risks 
around the projections are broadly balanced, 
the numbers reported in table 2 would imply a 
probability of about 70 percent that actual 
GDP  would  expand  within a range of  1.9 to   
4.1 percent in the current year, 1.4 to 4.6 per-
cent in the second year, and 1.3 to 4.7 percent 
in the third year.  The corresponding 70 percent 
confidence intervals for overall inflation would 
be 1.2 to 2.8 percent in the current year and 1.0 
to 3.0 percent in the second and third years. 
Because current conditions may differ 
from those that prevailed, on average, over his-
tory, participants provide judgments as to 
whether the uncertainty attached to their pro-
jections of each variable is greater than, smaller 
than, or broadly similar to typical levels of 
forecast uncertainty in the past, as shown in 
table 2.  Participants also provide judgments as 
to whether the risks to their projections are 
weighted to the upside, are weighted to the 
downside, or are broadly balanced.  That is, 
participants judge whether each variable is 
more likely to be above or below their projec-
tions of the most likely outcome.  These judg-
ments about the uncertainty and the risks at-
tending each participant’s projections are dis-
tinct from the diversity of participants’ views 
about the most likely outcomes.  Forecast un-
certainty is concerned with the risks associated 
with a particular projection rather than with 
divergences across a number of different pro-
jections. 
As with real activity and inflation, the out-
look for the future path of the federal funds 
rate is subject to considerable uncertainty.  This 
uncertainty arises primarily because each partic-
ipant’s assessment of the appropriate stance of 
monetary policy depends importantly on the 
evolution of real activity and inflation over 
time.  If economic conditions evolve in an un-
expected manner, then assessments of the ap-
propriate setting of the federal funds rate 
would change from that point forward.  
Summary of Economic Projections of the Meeting of April 24–25, 2012 Page 15
