
FOMC Minutes, September 19-20, 2023
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee 
September 19–20, 2023 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem was held in the offices of the Board of Governors 
on Tuesday, September 19, 2023, at 10:30 a.m. and con-
tinued on Wednesday, September 20, 2023, at 9:00 a.m.1 
Attendance  
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michael S. Barr 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lisa D. Cook 
Austan D. Goolsbee 
Patrick Harker 
Philip N. Jefferson 
Neel Kashkari 
Adriana D. Kugler 
Lorie K. Logan 
Christopher J. Waller  
Thomas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, Mary C. Daly, 
and Loretta J. Mester, Alternate Members of the 
Committee 
Susan M. Collins and Jeffrey R. Schmid, Presidents of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and Kansas 
City, respectively 
Kathleen O’Neill Paese, Interim President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis  
Joshua Gallin, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
Brian J. Bonis, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Richard Ostrander, Deputy General Counsel 
Trevor A. Reeve, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
Beth Anne Wilson, Economist 
Shaghil Ahmed,2 Roc Armenter, James A. Clouse, 
Brian M. Doyle, Eric M. Engen,3 Andrea Raffo, 
1 The Federal Open Market Committee is referenced as the 
“FOMC” and the “Committee” in these minutes; the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is referenced as 
the “Board” in these minutes. 
2 Attended Wednesday’s session only. 
Chiara Scotti, and William Wascher, Associate 
Economists  
Roberto Perli, Manager, System Open Market Account 
Julie Ann Remache, Deputy Manager, System Open 
Market Account 
Stephanie R. Aaronson, Senior Associate Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics, Board 
Jose Acosta, Senior System Administrator II, Division 
of Information Technology, Board 
Andrea Ajello, Section Chief, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Penelope A. Beattie,4 Section Chief, Office of the 
Secretary, Board 
Ellen J. Bromagen, First Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Mark A. Carlson, Adviser, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Daniel Cooper, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston 
Daniel M. Covitz, Deputy Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Stephanie E. Curcuru, Deputy Director, Division of 
International Finance, Board 
Rochelle M. Edge, Deputy Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Matthew J. Eichner,5 Director, Division of Reserve 
Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board 
Eric C. Engstrom, Associate Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
Charles A. Fleischman, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics, Board 
3 Attended Tuesday’s session only. 
4 Attended through the discussion of the economic and finan-
cial situation. 
5 Attended through the discussion of developments in finan-
cial markets and open market operations. 
Page 1
Glenn Follette, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Jennifer Gallagher, Assistant to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Carlos Garriga, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis 
Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, Board 
Joseph W. Gruber, Executive Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Valerie S. Hinojosa, Section Chief, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Matteo Iacoviello,3 Senior Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance, Board 
Jane E. Ihrig, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of 
Financial Stability, Board 
Don H. Kim,5 Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Edward S. Knotek II, Senior Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Spencer Krane, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago  
Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial 
Stability, Board 
Paul Lengermann, Assistant Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Kurt F. Lewis, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
Dan Li, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board  
Laura Lipscomb, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
Zheng Liu, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco 
David López-Salido, Senior Associate Director, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jonathan P. McCarthy, Economic Research Advisor, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Ann E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, 
Board  
Raven Molloy, Deputy Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board  
Michelle M. Neal, Head of Markets, Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York 
Anna Orlik, Principal Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Damjan Pfajfar, Group Manager, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Pierre-Daniel G. Sarte, Senior Advisor, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond 
Nitish Ranjan Sinha, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
Dafina Stewart, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
Clara Vega, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board  
Jeffrey D. Walker,5 Associate Director, Division of 
Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board 
Min Wei, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board  
Jonathan Willis, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Atlanta 
Donielle A. Winford, Information Manager, Division 
of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Paul R. Wood, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
Rebecca Zarutskie, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
Andrei Zlate, Group Manager, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Developments in Financial Markets and Open 
Market Operations 
The manager turned first to a review of developments in 
financial markets over the intermeeting period.  U.S. data 
releases generally pointed to greater economic resilience 
than previously thought, and the reaction in market pric-
ing implied both a higher expected trajectory for the pol-
icy rate at longer horizons and higher term premiums. 
Policy-sensitive rates rose moderately, and longer-dated 
forward rates displayed larger increases.  Ten-year Treas-
ury yields ended the period more than 40 basis points 
higher, and broad measures of equity prices fell.  Bank 
equity prices underperformed over the period, but taking 
a somewhat longer view, investor sentiment toward the 
banking sector appeared to have largely stabilized, with 
less differentiation of equity price movements across 
bank types.  The dollar broadly appreciated against ad-
vanced-economy currencies over the period, as stronger 
U.S. data supported moderately increased yield differen-
tials against these economies amid perceptions that pol-
icy rates were at or near their peaks.  In China, signs of 
strain in the property sector increased, and optimism 
about growth diminished further, on net, although 
broader markets, including global commodity markets, 
did not appear to show elevated concern about China-
related risks.  U.S. financial conditions tightened, with 
higher longer-term rates, lower equity prices, and a 
stronger dollar contributing roughly equally to the in-
crease in various financial conditions indexes.   
In addressing the increase in nominal yields on longer-
run Treasury securities over the intermeeting period, the 
manager noted that the rise in real yields exceeded that 
of nominal yields over the period, implying a small de-
cline in inflation compensation.  Inflation expectations 
appeared to remain very well anchored.  Market partici-
pants cited various factors for the rise in longer-term 
nominal yields, including stronger-than-expected eco-
nomic data, a possible increase in the neutral policy rate, 
greater economic and policy uncertainty, and larger-
than-expected borrowing by the Treasury.    
Household and corporate borrowing rates increased 
over the period, generally rising in line with Treasury 
yields.  Still, market participants noted that, with house-
hold and corporate borrowers having a limited need to 
refinance debt in the near term, it could take more time 
for past monetary policy actions to fully pass through to 
these sectors.  
Regarding expectations for the September FOMC meet-
ing, the manager noted that responses to the Open Mar-
ket Desk’s Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of 
Market Participants and market pricing all pointed to a 
virtual certainty of no change in the policy rate.  In addi-
tion, modal expectations for the policy rate from the sur-
veys were that the current target range would be main-
tained until the May 2024 FOMC meeting, compared 
with March in the previous survey, with a roughly one-
in-three chance of a 25 basis point increase by the No-
vember FOMC meeting.  For horizons beyond the mid-
dle of next year, the modal path from the surveys was 
notably lower than the market-implied path.  
The manager turned next to developments in money 
markets and Desk operations.  Usage of the overnight 
reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility contin-
ued to decline over the intermeeting period, largely re-
flecting reduced participation by government and prime 
money market funds even as these funds continued to 
see inflows.  Increased supply of money market instru-
ments, especially Treasury bills, contributed to a slight 
increase in money market rates, which appeared to in-
duce money funds to shift away from ON RRP toward 
other instruments.  However, the ON RRP facility con-
tinued to provide an effective floor for the federal funds 
rate.  With ON RRP balances falling more than Federal 
Reserve assets, reserve balances grew over the period. 
At more than $3.3 trillion, reserves remained abundant. 
In the September Survey of Primary Dealers, respond-
ents generally saw a lower path for ON RRP participa-
tion and a higher path for reserves, compared with the 
July survey.   
By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk’s 
domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. 
There were no intervention operations in foreign curren-
cies for the System’s account during the intermeeting pe-
riod. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation 
The data available at the time of the September 19–20 
meeting suggested that real gross domestic product 
(GDP) was rising at a solid pace in the third quarter.  The 
labor market continued to be tight, with the unemploy-
ment rate low and job gains slowing but remaining 
strong.  Consumer price inflation was still elevated.   
The imbalance between labor demand and supply ap-
peared to be easing.  Total nonfarm payroll employment 
increased at a slower pace over July and August than in 
the second quarter.  The private-sector job openings rate 
and the quits rate, both measured by the Job Openings 
and Labor Turnover Survey, moved down further 
through July.  Over July and August, the unemployment 
rate edged up, on net, and stood at 3.8 percent in August, 
and both the labor force participation rate (LFPR) and 
the employment-to-population ratio rose slightly.  The 
unemployment rate for African Americans declined, 
while the jobless rate for Hispanics rose, and both rates 
were still above the national average.  The easing of labor 
market imbalances was also evident in the recent wage 
data, with the 12-month changes in average hourly earn-
ings and the employment cost index, and the four-quar-
ter change in business-sector compensation per hour all 
lower than their year-earlier levels. 
Consumer price inflation remained elevated but contin-
ued to show signs of slowing.  The total price index for 
personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased 
3.3 percent over the 12 months ending in July, and core 
PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in energy 
prices and many consumer food prices, was 4.2 percent 
over the same period; both total and core PCE price in-
flation were lower than a year earlier.  The trimmed 
mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation con-
structed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 
4.1 percent in July, down from its level earlier in the year. 
In August, the 12-month change in the consumer price 
index (CPI) was 3.7 percent, while core CPI inflation 
was 4.3 percent over the same period, and both total and 
core CPI inflation were well below their year-earlier lev-
els.  Survey measures of consumers’ short-term inflation 
expectations had moved down alongside actual inflation 
but remained above pre-pandemic levels.  In contrast, 
survey measures of medium- to longer-term inflation ex-
pectations remained in the range seen in the decade be-
fore the pandemic. 
Available indicators suggested that real GDP was ex-
panding at a solid pace in the third quarter.  Private do-
mestic final purchases—which includes PCE, residential 
investment, and business fixed investment (BFI) and of-
ten provides a better signal of underlying economic mo-
mentum than does GDP—also looked to be rising sol-
idly, led by gains in both PCE and BFI.   
After falling in the second quarter, real goods exports 
increased in July, supported by higher exports of auto-
motive products.  Real goods imports also rose, as im-
ports of consumer goods and capital goods partially re-
covered from their declines in recent months.  The nom-
inal U.S. international trade deficit widened, as growth in 
imports of goods and services outpaced that of exports.  
Foreign economic growth slowed in the second quarter, 
as troubles in the property sector weighed on economic 
activity in China and monetary policy restraint contrib-
uted to the slowing in economic growth in Europe. 
Available data for the third quarter, such as purchasing 
managers indexes and measures of business confidence, 
pointed to a continued subdued pace of economic activ-
ity abroad. 
Foreign headline inflation continued to fall but remained 
elevated.  In several economies, though, energy prices 
turned up again.  In the context of still-high core infla-
tion, some central banks in advanced foreign economies 
(AFEs) raised their policy rates, despite a slowdown in 
economic activity, and indicated their intention to hold 
these rates at sufficiently restrictive levels to bring infla-
tion back to target rates.  In contrast, central banks of 
emerging market economies largely remained on hold, 
and some even began to cut rates amid easing inflation-
ary pressures. 
Staff Review of the Financial Situation 
Over the intermeeting period, generally robust eco-
nomic data led to moderate increases in the market- 
implied path of the federal funds rate and yields on 
shorter-term Treasury securities.  Yields on medium- 
and longer-term nominal Treasury securities rose more 
substantially, mainly reflecting higher term premiums 
and higher real yields.  Stock prices declined somewhat, 
but spreads on investment- and speculative-grade cor-
porate bonds were little changed.  Financing conditions 
tightened somewhat, and borrowing costs increased 
moderately. 
Market participants pointed to a range of factors that 
may have contributed to the increase in longer-term for-
ward rates, including higher term premiums and upward 
revisions to market views of the likely path of Treasury 
debt over time.  Real yields increased almost as much as 
or a little more than nominal yields, leaving implied 
measures of inflation compensation modestly changed. 
The market-implied path for the federal funds rate in the 
near term was up slightly since the July FOMC meeting, 
and the expected path further out, implied by overnight 
index swap contracts, rose moderately. 
Broad equity price indexes declined somewhat, and the 
one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 in-
dex edged up slightly, on net, and stood near the 
25th percentile of its historical distribution.   
Conditions in domestic short-term funding markets re-
mained stable over the intermeeting period.  Both prime 
and government money market funds experienced mod-
erate inflows since the July FOMC meeting.  Against a 
backdrop of heavy issuance of Treasury bills and the 
modest associated upward pressure on Treasury bill 
yields, take-up in the ON RRP facility continued to de-
cline over the period and fell below $1.5 trillion late in 
the period.    
Over the intermeeting period, the dollar appreciated, as 
U.S. economic data came in stronger than expected, 
while foreign data suggested slowing economic growth 
abroad.  Long-term yields in AFEs ended the period 
higher, reflecting spillovers from higher U.S. yields and, 
to a lesser extent, the increase in Japanese yields follow-
ing the decision by the Bank of Japan to effectively 
widen its target range for the 10-year Japanese yield. 
Global equity prices declined moderately, reflecting 
higher long-term yields and increased concerns about 
the foreign economic outlook.  Bond and equity funds 
focused on emerging markets saw moderate outflows. 
In domestic credit markets, borrowing rates for busi-
nesses, households, and municipalities increased moder-
ately over the intermeeting period, mostly reflecting a 
pass-through of higher yields on longer-maturity Treas-
ury securities to those borrowing rates.  Interest rates on 
newly originated bank loans to businesses and house-
holds increased over the second quarter, interest rates on 
credit card offers increased in July, and interest rates on 
auto loans increased in July and August. 
Bank credit conditions appeared to tighten somewhat 
over the intermeeting period, but credit to businesses 
and households remained generally accessible.  Com-
mercial and industrial loan balances contracted, but out-
standing commercial real estate (CRE) loans increased 
from July through late August, though at a slower pace 
than earlier in the year.  Within the category of CRE 
loans, nonfarm nonresidential loans contracted over the 
summer for the first time since March 2022.  Bank fund-
ing conditions were generally stable.  Core deposits de-
clined but were offset by inflows of large time deposits.  
Credit was available for most consumers.  Credit card 
balances grew in the second quarter through late August. 
For residential real estate borrowers, credit availability 
was little changed.  Credit conditions for small busi-
nesses were also fairly stable.  The PayNet Small Busi-
ness Lending Index indicated that loan originations 
edged up in July and stood above the median of its pre-
pandemic level.  Credit was generally accessible through 
capital markets, although issuance was subdued.  Issu-
ance of nonfinancial investment- and speculative-grade 
bonds was muted in July but picked up modestly in Au-
gust, and issuance of municipal bonds was weak in July. 
New issuance of leveraged loans was subdued in July, 
and issuance of agency and non-agency commercial 
mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) was soft in July and 
August. 
Credit quality deteriorated a little further across many 
sectors in recent months but remained broadly solid.  In 
the CRE sector, delinquency rates on nonfarm nonresi-
dential CRE bank loans rose over the second quarter, 
while delinquency rates on construction, land develop-
ment, and multifamily loans were roughly unchanged. 
Delinquency rates of loans in CMBS pools increased, 
driven by the office and retail sectors.  The office delin-
quency rate rose more than 2 percentage points since 
January but remained below its pre-pandemic average. 
The delinquency rate for small business loans ticked up 
in June and July.  Delinquency rates for credit cards and 
auto loans increased further in the second quarter and 
stood a bit above their average levels in the years leading 
up to the pandemic.  The fraction of potential borrowers 
with a prime credit score expanded through the second 
quarter, moving further above its pre-pandemic level. 
The trailing default rates for investment- and specula-
tive-grade corporate bonds increased in July but re-
mained at historically low levels.  The trailing default rate 
for leveraged loans was little changed, on net, but down-
grades of leveraged loans surpassed upgrades in July and 
August.   
In contrast to many other types of loans, the payment 
performance of home mortgages improved.  Delin-
quency rates of Federal Housing Administration and 
Department of Veterans Affairs loans in July were lower 
than levels seen earlier this year, and delinquency rates 
of conventional loans remained at historical lows.  Credit 
quality was also strong for municipal borrowers. 
Staff Economic Outlook 
The economic forecast prepared by the staff for the Sep-
tember FOMC meeting was stronger than the July pro-
jection, as consumer and business spending appeared to 
be more resilient to tight financial conditions than pre-
viously expected.  The staff assumed that GDP growth 
for the rest of this year would be damped a bit by the 
autoworkers’ strike, with these effects unwound by a 
small boost to GDP growth next year.  The size and tim-
ing of these effects were highly uncertain.  In all, the staff 
projected that real GDP growth in 2024 through 2026 
would be slower, on average, than this year and would 
run below the staff’s estimate of potential output 
growth, restrained over the next couple of years by the 
lagged effects of monetary policy actions.  The unem-
ployment rate was projected to remain roughly flat 
through 2026, as upward pressure from below-potential 
output growth was offset by downward pressure from 
further improvements in labor market functioning. 
Total and core PCE price inflation were forecast to be 
around 3.5 percent at the end of this year, and inflation 
was projected to move lower in coming years, as demand 
and supply in product and labor markets continued to 
move into better alignment.  Total and core PCE price 
inflation were expected to be close to 2 percent in 2026. 
The staff continued to view the uncertainty around the 
baseline projection as considerable.  Risks around the in-
flation forecast were seen as skewed to the upside, given 
the possibility that inflation could prove to be more per-
sistent than expected or that further adverse shocks to 
supply conditions might occur.  Should these upside in-
flation risks materialize, the response of monetary policy 
could, if coupled with an adverse reaction in financial 
markets, tilt the risks around the forecast for economic 
activity to the downside. 
Participants’ Views on Current Conditions and the 
Economic Outlook 
In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, participants 
submitted their projections of the most likely outcomes 
for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and infla-
tion for each year from 2023 through 2026 and over the 
longer run.  The projections were based on their individ-
ual assessments of appropriate monetary policy, includ-
ing the path of the federal funds rate.  The longer-run 
projections represented each participant’s assessment of 
the rate to which each variable would be expected to 
converge, over time, under appropriate monetary policy 
and in the absence of further shocks to the economy.  A 
Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) was released 
to the public following the conclusion of the meeting. 
Regarding the economic outlook, participants assessed 
that real GDP had been expanding at a solid pace and 
had been more resilient than expected.  Nevertheless, 
participants also noted that they expected that real GDP 
growth would slow in the near term.  Participants judged 
that the current stance of monetary policy was restrictive 
and that it broadly appeared to be restraining the econ-
omy as intended.  Participants stressed that current in-
flation remained unacceptably high while acknowledging 
that it had moderated somewhat over the past year. 
They also noted that further evidence would be required 
for them to be confident that inflation was clearly on a 
path to the Committee’s 2 percent objective.  Partici-
pants continued to view a period of below-trend growth 
in real GDP and some softening in labor market condi-
tions as likely to be needed to bring aggregate demand 
and aggregate supply into better balance and reduce in-
flation pressures sufficiently to return inflation to 2 per-
cent over time. 
In their discussion of the household sector, participants 
observed that aggregate consumer spending had contin-
ued to exhibit considerable strength, supported by the 
strong labor market and by generally strong household 
balance sheets.  However, many participants remarked 
that the finances of some households were coming un-
der pressure amid high inflation and declining savings 
and that there had been an increasing reliance on credit 
to finance expenditures.  In addition, tighter credit con-
ditions, waning fiscal support for families, and a resump-
tion of student loan payments were viewed by several 
participants as having the potential to weigh on the 
growth of consumption.  While household credit quality 
was seen as generally strong, a few participants noted ris-
ing delinquency rates on some types of consumer credit. 
A couple of participants also remarked that households 
were becoming increasingly price sensitive.  Some par-
ticipants noted that housing demand was resilient de-
spite higher interest rates; new home construction was 
solid, in part reflecting the limited inventory of homes 
available for sale. 
Regarding the business sector, participants noted that 
activity continued to be solid, though several pointed to 
signs of softening conditions.  Many participants noted 
improved business conditions from an increased ability 
to hire and retain workers, better-functioning supply 
chains, or reduced input cost pressures.  A few partici-
pants commented that their business contacts had re-
ported difficulties passing on cost increases to custom-
ers.  Several participants judged that, over coming quar-
ters, business activity would be restrained by tighter fi-
nancial conditions, such as higher interest rates and 
more constrained access to bank credit.  Several partici-
pants noted, however, that the tightening of credit con-
ditions resulting from the banking stresses earlier in the 
year was likely to be less severe than they previously ex-
pected.  A number of participants expressed concerns 
about vulnerabilities in the CRE sector.  Many partici-
pants commented that they expected that the autowork-
ers’ strike would, in the near term, result in a slowdown 
in production of motor vehicles and parts and possibly 
put upward pressure on automobile prices, but that these 
effects would be temporary.  With respect to the agricul-
tural sector, a few participants noted that conditions 
were mixed, as crop prices had declined amid higher pro-
duction estimates and as supply and demand imbalances 
pushed up the prices of some types of livestock and held 
down the prices of others.   
Participants observed that the labor market was tight but 
that supply and demand conditions were continuing to 
come into better balance.  Most participants remarked 
that a range of indicators of labor demand were easing—
as could be seen by declines in job openings, a narrowing 
of the jobs-to-workers gap, lower quits rates, and a re-
duction in average weekly hours worked to levels at or 
below those seen before the pandemic.  However, sev-
eral participants noted that labor markets remained very 
tight in some sectors of the economy, such as health-
care services and education.  Many participants also ob-
served that measures of labor supply, especially the 
LFPR, had moved up.  Some participants commented 
that the increase in the LFPR for women had been par-
ticularly notable, although they expressed concern that 
challenges regarding the availability of childcare could 
affect the sustainability of this increase in participation. 
Several participants noted that immigration had also 
been boosting labor supply.  Some participants observed 
that payroll growth remained strong but had slowed in 
recent months to a pace closer to that consistent with 
maintaining a constant unemployment rate over time. 
Most participants commented that the pace of nominal 
wage increases had moderated, and a few also mentioned 
that the wage premium for job switchers had come 
down.  They noted, however, that nominal wages were 
still rising at rates above levels generally assessed to be 
consistent with the sustained achievement of the Com-
mittee’s 2 percent inflation objective, given current esti-
mates of trend productivity growth. 
Participants noted that the data received over the past 
several months generally suggested that inflation was 
slowing.  Even with these favorable developments, they 
emphasized that further progress was needed to get in-
flation sustainably to 2 percent.  Participants pointed to 
the softening of price inflation for goods amid improv-
ing supply conditions and to declining housing services 
inflation.  Several participants remarked that, despite the 
recent rise in energy prices, food and energy prices over 
the past year had contributed to a decline in overall in-
flation.  However, participants also noted that significant 
progress in reducing inflation had yet to become appar-
ent in the prices of core services excluding housing.  Par-
ticipants noted that longer-term inflation expectations 
remained well anchored and that shorter-term inflation 
expectations had been moving down from elevated lev-
els.  Participants observed that, notwithstanding recent 
favorable developments, inflation remained well above 
the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run objective and that 
elevated inflation was continuing to harm businesses and 
households—particularly low-income households.  Par-
ticipants stressed that they would need to see more data 
indicating that inflation pressures were abating to be 
more confident that inflation was on course to return to 
2 percent over time.   
Participants generally noted there was still a high degree 
of uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook.  One 
new source of uncertainty was that associated with the 
autoworkers’ strike, and many participants observed that 
an intensification of the strike posed both an upside risk 
to inflation and a downside risk to activity.  A majority 
of participants pointed to upside risks to inflation from 
rising energy prices that could undo some of the recent 
disinflation or to the risk that inflation would prove 
more persistent than expected.  Various participants 
noted downside risks to economic activity, including 
that credit conditions might tighten more than expected 
if the domestic banking sector experienced further 
strains; the possibility that the economic slowdown in 
China could result in a drag on global economic growth; 
or that an extended U.S. government shutdown could 
have negative, albeit temporary, consequences for 
growth.  Some participants remarked that an upside risk 
to their projections for economic activity was that the 
unexpected resilience that the economy had demon-
strated so far could persist.  Several participants com-
mented that a government shutdown might result in the 
delayed release of some economic data and that this out-
come would make it more difficult to assess economic 
conditions.  A few participants observed that there were 
challenges in assessing the state of the economy because 
some data continued to be volatile and subject to large 
revisions.   
In their consideration of appropriate monetary policy ac-
tions at this meeting, participants concurred that eco-
nomic activity had been expanding at a solid pace and 
had been resilient.  While the labor market remained 
tight, job gains had slowed, and there were continuing 
signs that supply and demand in the labor market were 
coming into better balance.  Participants also noted that 
tighter credit conditions facing households and busi-
nesses were a source of headwinds for the economy and 
would likely weigh on economic activity, hiring, and in-
flation.  However, the extent of these effects remained 
uncertain.  Although inflation had moderated since the 
middle of last year, it remained well above the Commit-
tee’s longer-run goal of 2 percent, and participants re-
mained resolute in their commitment to bring inflation 
down to the Committee’s 2 percent objective.  Amid 
these economic conditions, and in consideration of the 
significant cumulative tightening in the stance of mone-
tary policy and the lags with which policy affects eco-
nomic activity and inflation, almost all participants 
judged it appropriate to maintain the target range for the 
federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent at this meeting. 
Participants judged that maintaining this restrictive 
stance of policy would support further progress toward 
the Committee’s goals while allowing the Committee 
time to gather additional data to evaluate this progress. 
All participants agreed that it was appropriate to con-
tinue the process of reducing the Federal Reserve’s se-
curities holdings, as described in its previously an-
nounced Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Re-
serve’s Balance Sheet.  
In discussing the policy outlook, participants continued 
to judge that it was critical that the stance of monetary 
policy be kept sufficiently restrictive to return inflation 
to the Committee’s 2 percent objective over time.  A ma-
jority of participants judged that one more increase in 
the target federal funds rate at a future meeting would 
likely be appropriate, while some judged it likely that no 
further increases would be warranted.  All participants 
agreed that the Committee was in a position to proceed 
carefully and that policy decisions at every meeting 
would continue to be based on the totality of incoming 
information and its implications for the economic out-
look as well as the balance of risks.  Participants expected 
that the data arriving in coming months would help clar-
ify the extent to which the disinflation process was con-
tinuing and labor markets were reaching a better balance 
between demand and supply.  This information would 
be valuable in determining the extent of additional policy 
firming that may be appropriate to return inflation to 
2 percent over time.  Some participants also emphasized 
the importance of continuing to communicate clearly to 
the public about the Committee’s data-dependent ap-
proach to policy and its firm commitment to bring infla-
tion down to 2 percent.  
All participants agreed that policy should remain restric-
tive for some time until the Committee is confident that 
inflation is moving down sustainably toward its objec-
tive.  A few participants noted that the pace at which 
inflation was returning to the Committee’s 2 percent 
goal would influence their views of the sufficiently re-
strictive level of the policy rate and how long to keep 
policy restrictive.  Several participants commented that, 
with the policy rate likely at or near its peak, the focus of 
monetary policy decisions and communications should 
shift from how high to raise the policy rate to how long 
to hold the policy rate at restrictive levels.  A few partic-
ipants noted that it would be important to monitor the 
real federal funds rate in gauging the stance of monetary 
policy over time.  Most participants observed that 
postmeeting communications, including the SEP, would 
help clarify to the public how participants assessed the 
likely evolution of the stance of monetary policy.  Par-
ticipants observed that the continuing process of reduc-
ing the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet was 
an important part of the overall approach to achieving 
their macroeconomic objectives.  Several participants 
noted that the process of balance sheet runoff could 
continue for some time, even after the Committee be-
gins to reduce the target range for the federal funds rate. 
A vast majority of participants continued to judge the 
future path of the economy as highly uncertain.  Many 
noted data volatility and potential data revisions, or the 
difficulty of estimating the neutral policy rate, as sup-
porting the case for proceeding carefully in determining 
the extent of additional policy firming that may be ap-
propriate.   
Participants discussed several risk-management consid-
erations that could bear on future policy decisions.  Par-
ticipants generally judged that, with the stance of mone-
tary policy in restrictive territory, risks to the achieve-
ment of the Committee’s goals had become more two 
sided.  But with inflation still well above the Committee’s 
longer-run goal and the labor market remaining tight, 
most participants continued to see upside risks to infla-
tion.  These risks included the imbalance of aggregate 
demand and supply persisting longer than expected, as 
well as risks emanating from global oil markets, the po-
tential for upside shocks to food prices, the effects of a 
strong housing market on shelter inflation, and the po-
tential for more limited declines in goods prices.  Many 
participants commented that even though economic ac-
tivity had been resilient and the labor market had re-
mained strong, there continued to be downside risks to 
economic activity and upside risks to the unemployment 
rate.  Such risks included larger-than-anticipated lagged 
macroeconomic effects from the tightening in financial 
conditions, the effect of labor union strikes, slowing 
global growth, and continued weakness in the CRE sec-
tor.  Participants generally noted that it was important to 
balance the risk of overtightening against the risk of in-
sufficient tightening. 
Committee Policy Actions 
In their discussion of monetary policy for this meeting, 
members agreed that economic activity had been ex-
panding at a solid pace, and, accordingly, that the corre-
sponding language in the postmeeting statement should 
be changed from “moderate” to “solid.”  They also con-
curred that job gains had slowed in recent months but 
remained strong, and the unemployment rate had re-
mained low.  Inflation had remained elevated. 
Members concurred that the U.S. banking system was 
sound and resilient.  They also agreed that tighter credit 
conditions for households and businesses were likely to 
weigh on economic activity, hiring, and inflation but that 
the extent of these effects was uncertain.  Members also 
concurred that they remained highly attentive to infla-
tion risks. 
In support of the Committee’s objectives to achieve 
maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 per-
cent over the longer run, members agreed to maintain 
the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 
5½ percent.  They also agreed that they would continue 
to assess additional information and its implications for 
monetary policy.  In determining the extent of additional 
policy firming that may be appropriate to return inflation 
to 2 percent over time, members concurred that they 
would take into account the cumulative tightening of 
monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy af-
fects economic activity and inflation, and economic and 
financial developments.  In addition, members agreed to 
continue to reduce the Federal Reserve’s holdings of 
Treasury securities and agency debt and mortgage-
backed securities, as described in its previously an-
nounced plans.  All members affirmed that they are 
strongly committed to returning inflation to their 2 per-
cent objective. 
Members agreed that, in assessing the appropriate stance 
of monetary policy, they would continue to monitor the 
implications of incoming information for the economic 
outlook.  They would be prepared to adjust the stance of 
monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could 
impede the attainment of the Committee’s goals.  Mem-
bers also agreed that their assessments will take into ac-
count a wide range of information, including readings on 
labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation 
expectations, and financial and international develop-
ments. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee 
voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the 
System Open Market Account in accordance with the 
following domestic policy directive, for release at 
2:00 p.m.: 
“Effective September 21, 2023, the Federal 
Open Market Committee directs the Desk to: 
 Undertake open market operations as nec-
essary to maintain the federal funds rate in
a target range of 5¼ to 5½ percent.
 Conduct standing overnight repurchase
agreement operations with a minimum bid
rate of 5.5 percent and with an aggregate
operation limit of $500 billion.
 Conduct standing overnight reverse repur-
chase agreement operations at an offering
rate of 5.3 percent and with a per-counter-
party limit of $160 billion per day.
 Roll over at auction the amount of principal
payments from the Federal Reserve’s hold-
ings of Treasury securities maturing in each
calendar month that exceeds a cap of
$60 billion per month.  Redeem Treasury
coupon securities up to this monthly cap
and Treasury bills to the extent that coupon 
principal payments are less than the 
monthly cap. 
 Reinvest into agency mortgage-backed se-
curities (MBS) the amount of principal pay-
ments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings
of agency debt and agency MBS received in
each calendar month that exceeds a cap of
$35 billion per month.
 Allow modest deviations from stated
amounts for reinvestments, if needed for
operational reasons.
 Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap
transactions as necessary to facilitate settle-
ment of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS
transactions.”
The vote also encompassed approval of the statement 
below for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“Recent indicators suggest that economic activ-
ity has been expanding at a solid pace.  Job gains 
have slowed in recent months but remain 
strong, and the unemployment rate has re-
mained low.  Inflation remains elevated. 
The U.S. banking system is sound and resilient. 
Tighter credit conditions for households and 
businesses are likely to weigh on economic ac-
tivity, hiring, and inflation.  The extent of these 
effects remains uncertain.  The Committee re-
mains highly attentive to inflation risks. 
The Committee seeks to achieve maximum em-
ployment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent 
over the longer run.  In support of these goals, 
the Committee decided to maintain the target 
range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 
5½ percent.  The Committee will continue to 
assess additional information and its implica-
tions for monetary policy.  In determining the 
extent of additional policy firming that may be 
appropriate to return inflation to 2 percent over 
time, the Committee will take into account the 
cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the 
lags with which monetary policy affects eco-
nomic activity and inflation, and economic and 
financial developments.  In addition, the Com-
mittee will continue reducing its holdings of 
Treasury securities and agency debt and agency 
mortgage-backed securities, as described in its 
previously announced plans.  The Committee is 
strongly committed to returning inflation to its 
2 percent objective. 
In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary 
policy, the Committee will continue to monitor 
the implications of incoming information for 
the economic outlook.  The Committee would 
be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary 
policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could 
impede the attainment of the Committee’s 
goals.  The Committee’s assessments will take 
into account a wide range of information, in-
cluding readings on labor market conditions, in-
flation pressures and inflation expectations, and 
financial and international developments.” 
Voting for this action:  Jerome H. Powell, John C. 
Williams, Michael S. Barr, Michelle W. Bowman, Lisa D. 
Cook, Austan D. Goolsbee, Patrick Harker, Philip N. 
Jefferson, Neel Kashkari, Adriana D. Kugler, Lorie K. 
Logan, and Christopher J. Waller. 
Voting against this action:  None. 
Consistent with the Committee’s decision to leave the 
target range for the federal funds rate unchanged, the 
Board  of  Governors  of  the  Federal  Reserve  System 
voted unanimously to maintain the interest rate paid on 
reserve balances at 5.4 percent, effective Septem-
ber 21, 2023.  The Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System voted unanimously to approve the es-
tablishment of the primary credit rate at the existing level 
of 5.5 percent, effective September 21, 2023. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee 
would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, October 31–
November 1, 2023.  The meeting adjourned at 
10:10 a.m. on September 20, 2023. 
Notation Vote 
By notation vote completed on August 15, 2023, the 
Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the 
Committee meeting held on July 25–26, 2023. 
Joshua Gallin 
Secretary 
