
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee June 13-14, 2023
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee 
June 13–14, 2023 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem was held in the offices of the Board of Governors 
on Tuesday, June 13, 2023, at 10:30 a.m. and continued 
on Wednesday, June 14, 2023, at 9:00 a.m.1 
Attendance  
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michael S. Barr 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lisa D. Cook 
Austan D. Goolsbee 
Patrick Harker 
Philip N. Jefferson 
Neel Kashkari 
Lorie K. Logan 
Christopher J. Waller 
Thomas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, Mary C. Daly, 
and Loretta J. Mester, Alternate Members of the 
Committee 
James Bullard and Susan M. Collins, Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis and Boston, 
respectively 
Kelly J. Dubbert, Interim President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City  
Joshua Gallin, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
Brian J. Bonis, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Richard Ostrander, Deputy General Counsel 
Trevor A. Reeve, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
Beth Anne Wilson, Economist 
Roc Armenter, James A. Clouse, Brian M. Doyle, 
Beverly J. Hirtle, Andrea Raffo, Chiara Scotti, and 
William Wascher, Associate Economists  
Roberto Perli, Manager, System Open Market Account 
1 The Federal Open Market Committee is referenced as the 
“FOMC” and the “Committee” in these minutes; the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is referenced as 
the “Board” in these minutes. 
Julie Ann Remache, Deputy Manager, System Open 
Market Account 
Jose Acosta, Senior Communications Analyst, Division 
of Information Technology, Board 
Gianni Amisano, Assistant Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Philippe Andrade, Senior Economist and Policy 
Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Alyssa Arute,2 Manager, Division of Reserve Bank 
Operations and Payment Systems, Board 
Penelope A. Beattie,3 Section Chief, Office of the 
Secretary, Board 
Carol C. Bertaut, Senior Adviser, Division of 
International Finance, Board 
Jennifer J. Burns, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation, Board 
Marco Cagetti, Assistant Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics, Board 
Mark A. Carlson, Adviser, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Juan C. Climent, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
Daniel M. Covitz, Deputy Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Stephanie E. Curcuru, Deputy Director, Division of 
International Finance, Board 
Ahmet Degerli, Economist, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Cynthia L. Doniger, Principal Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Rochelle M. Edge, Deputy Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
2 Attended through the discussion of developments in finan-
cial markets and open market operations. 
3 Attended through the discussion of the economic and finan-
cial situation and all of Wednesday’s session. 
Page 1
Erin E. Ferris, Principal Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jonas Fisher, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago 
Glenn Follette, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Jennifer Gallagher, Assistant to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Carlos Garriga, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis 
David Glancy,4 Principal Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Christopher J. Gust, Associate Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Valerie S. Hinojosa, Section Chief, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jane E. Ihrig, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of 
Financial Stability, Board 
Don H. Kim,2 Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Edward S. Knotek II, Senior Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial 
Stability, Board 
Paul Lengermann, Assistant Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Kurt F. Lewis, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
Geng Li, Assistant Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics, Board 
Laura Lipscomb, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
Brent Meyer, Assistant Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta 
Bernardo C. Morais, Principal Economist, Division of 
International Finance, Board 
4 Attended Tuesday’s session only. 
Michelle M. Neal, Head of Markets, Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York 
Edward Nelson, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Nicolas Petrosky-Nadeau, Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Achilles Sangster II, Senior Information Manager, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Zeynep Senyuz, Deputy Associate Director, Division 
of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Margie Shanks, Deputy Secretary, Office of the 
Secretary, Board 
Nitish Ranjan Sinha, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
A. Lee Smith, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City 
Hiroatsu Tanaka,5 Senior Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Mary H. Tian, Group Manager, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board 
Robert L. Triplett III, First Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Clara Vega, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of 
Board Members, Board 
Daniel J. Vine, Principal Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board 
Jeffrey D. Walker,2 Associate Director, Division of 
Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board 
Fabian Winkler, Principal Economist, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board 
Alexander L. Wolman, Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond 
Paul R. Wood, Special Adviser to the Board, Division 
of Board Members, Board 
Rebecca Zarutskie, Special Adviser to the Board, 
Division of Board Members, Board 
5 Attended from the discussion of the economic and financial 
situation through the end of Tuesday’s session. 
Developments in Financial Markets and Open 
Market Operations 
The manager turned first to a review of developments in 
financial markets.  Policy-sensitive rates increased over 
the intermeeting period, reflecting indications of contin-
ued resilience in the economy, persistently elevated core 
inflation, and reduced downside tail risks following the 
resolution of the debt limit.  The shift in policy expecta-
tions contributed significantly to higher Treasury yields.  
The increase in nominal yields primarily reflected higher 
real rates rather than inflation compensation.  Broad eq-
uity prices rose, although the outperformance was con-
centrated in a handful of companies with a large market 
capitalization.  Cyclical sectors fared better than sectors 
that tend to appreciate in a downturn, suggesting some 
reduced investor concern about downside risks to 
growth.  Investor sentiment about the banking sector 
improved as perceived tail risks regarding regional banks 
appeared to have receded.  Equity prices for regional 
banks rose over the intermeeting period but were still 
well below early March levels.  Financial conditions in-
dexes were roughly unchanged, as higher rates and a 
stronger dollar were offset by higher equity prices and 
narrower credit spreads. 
The vast majority of respondents to the Open Market 
Desk’s Surveys of Primary Dealers and Market Partici-
pants expected no rate change at this meeting.  While the 
median path from the surveys pointed to no rate changes 
through early 2024, there was significant dispersion 
across respondents, and respondents saw a clear proba-
bility of additional tightening at coming meetings.  Re-
spondents’ average probability distribution for the level 
of the peak policy rate shifted higher since the May meet-
ing and respondents on average assigned about 60 per-
cent probability to the peak being above the current tar-
get range.  The market-implied path for the policy rate 
continued to show some decline this year but less so 
than it had in recent months.  Measures of uncertainty 
about the path of the policy rate derived from options 
remained very elevated, though they came down some 
over the intermeeting period. 
Desk survey respondents still saw a recession occurring 
in the near term as quite likely, but the expected timing 
was again pushed later, as economic data pointed to the 
continued resilience of economic activity.  Overall, re-
spondents generally continued to expect that any down-
turn would be neither deep nor prolonged.  With regard 
to inflation expectations, respondents marked up their 
projections for quarterly core personal consumption ex-
penditures (PCE) inflation in the second and third quar-
ters of this year, while projections for later quarters were 
little changed.  
The manager then turned to money market develop-
ments and policy implementation.  The median respond-
ent to the Desk surveys expected the three-month bill 
yield to increase slightly relative to the similar-maturity 
overnight index swap (OIS) rate and to remain above it 
into the fourth quarter.  This expectation likely reflected 
a combination of rising net supply of bills as part of the 
Treasury Department’s plan to rebuild the Treasury 
General Account (TGA) following the resolution of the 
debt limit and expectations for healthy investor demand 
for bills.  The overnight reverse repurchase agreement 
(ON RRP) facility, which continued to support effective 
policy implementation and control over the federal 
funds rate, saw somewhat lower participation since the 
resolution of the debt limit, consistent with the historical 
experience that ON RRP participation is typically re-
sponsive to changes in money market conditions.  The 
median respondent to the Desk’s Survey of Primary 
Dealers expected ON RRP participation to trend lower 
over the rest of this year.  The staff assessed that the 
replenishment of the TGA and the ongoing balance 
sheet runoff, among other factors, were likely to subtract 
from reserves more than the decline in ON RRP partic-
ipation would add to them.  On net, the staff judged that 
reserves at the end of the year were likely to remain 
abundant.  Uncertainty surrounding the outlooks for 
both reserves and ON RRP participation was substan-
tial. 
By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk’s 
domestic transactions over the intermeeting period.  
There were no intervention operations in foreign curren-
cies for the System’s account during the intermeeting pe-
riod. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation 
The information available at the time of the June 13–14 
meeting suggested that real gross domestic product 
(GDP) was expanding at a modest pace in the second 
quarter.  Labor market conditions remained tight in re-
cent months, as job gains were robust and the unem-
ployment rate was low.  Consumer price inflation—as 
measured by the 12-month percent change in the price 
index for PCE—continued to be elevated in April.   
Labor market conditions remained tight in April and 
May.  Total nonfarm payroll employment increased at a 
robust pace during those two months.  The unemploy-
ment rate edged up, on net, but was still at a low level of 
3.7 percent in May.  On balance, the unemployment rate 
for African Americans moved up to 5.6 percent, while 
the jobless rate for Hispanics moved down to 4.0 per-
cent.  In aggregate, the labor force participation rate held 
steady in April and May, and the employment-to- 
population ratio ticked down.  The private-sector job 
openings rate in April—as measured by the Job Open-
ings and Labor Turnover Survey—was unchanged from 
its relatively high first-quarter average, though it was 
lower than a year earlier.   
Recent measures of nominal wage growth continued to 
be elevated, although lower than their highs last year.  
Over the 12 months ending in May, average hourly earn-
ings for all employees increased 4.3 percent, below its 
peak of 5.9 percent early last year.  Over the year ending 
in the first quarter, compensation per hour in the busi-
ness sector increased 3.2 percent, down from 5.5 percent 
a year earlier. 
Consumer price inflation remained elevated.  Total PCE 
price inflation had eased since the middle of last year, 
reflecting declines in consumer energy prices and soften-
ing consumer food price inflation, but recent readings 
for core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes 
in consumer energy prices and most consumer food 
prices and usually provides a better signal about future 
inflation than the more volatile total inflation measure—
were little changed.  Total PCE price inflation was 
4.4 percent over the 12 months ending in April, and core 
PCE price inflation was 4.7 percent—the same as the 
12-month percent change recorded in January.  In May, 
the 12-month change in the consumer price index (CPI) 
was 4.0 percent, and core CPI inflation was 5.3 per-
cent—only slightly below its January reading.  The 
trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price infla-
tion constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
was 4.8 percent in April.  Survey-based measures of 
longer-term inflation expectations in May from the Uni-
versity of Michigan Surveys of Consumers and the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York’s Survey of Consumer 
Expectations remained within the range of their values 
reported in the decade before the pandemic; near-term 
measures of inflation expectations from these surveys 
moved down in May and continued to be below their 
peaks seen last year.  
Real GDP appeared to be increasing modestly in the sec-
ond quarter following its stronger first-quarter gain.  Pri-
vate domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which includes 
PCE, residential investment, and business fixed invest-
ment and often provides a better signal of underlying 
economic momentum than GDP—looked to be ex-
panding more slowly in the second quarter than its ro-
bust first-quarter pace.  For the first half as a whole, 
PDFP growth seemed to be more resilient than in the 
second half of last year.   
The annual revisions to international trade statistics sug-
gested that net exports contributed positively to U.S. real 
GDP growth in the first quarter, with real exports re-
bounding more strongly than real imports following 
their fourth-quarter declines.  In April, however, the 
nominal trade deficit widened notably, as nominal ex-
ports decreased and nominal imports rose further. 
Foreign economic growth rebounded in the first quarter, 
reflecting in part the reopening of China’s economy 
from its COVID-19-related shutdowns and strong  
services-sector activity in other Asian countries, Canada, 
and Mexico.  In the euro area, however, real GDP con-
tracted modestly for a second consecutive quarter amid 
a pullback in consumer spending.  Indicators pointed to 
a step-down in the pace of foreign economic growth in 
the second quarter, with the impetus from China’s reo-
pening dissipating and global manufacturing activity re-
maining weak.   
Global prices for energy and agricultural commodities 
were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period, 
while prices for metals fell further.  Declines in retail en-
ergy prices since the beginning of the year contributed 
to a notable easing in headline consumer price inflation 
in the foreign economies.  By contrast, core inflation had 
yet to materially decline from its recent highs in many 
economies.  In this context, and with tight labor market 
conditions, foreign central banks underscored the need 
to raise policy rates further or hold them at sufficiently 
restrictive levels to bring inflation back to their respec-
tive targets and be well positioned in case inflation failed 
to decline as expected. 
Staff Review of the Financial Situation 
Over the intermeeting period, market participants ap-
peared to interpret incoming data as signaling, on bal-
ance, more resilience in economic activity than previ-
ously assumed and viewed communications from 
FOMC participants overall as pointing to a tighter path 
for policy than expected.  As a result, Treasury yields and 
the expected future path for the federal funds rate 
shifted upward significantly.  Meanwhile, broad equity 
prices also increased notably.  Financing conditions re-
mained moderately restrictive, but credit availability gen-
erally remained solid. 
The expected path of the policy rate implied by market 
quotes moved up notably over the intermeeting period.  
A straight read of federal funds futures rates suggested 
that market participants expected that the federal funds 
rate would be roughly flat over the course of the rest of 
this year.  The year-end expected rate was about 70 basis 
points higher than the year-end expectation before the 
May FOMC meeting.  Beyond this year, the policy rate 
path implied by OIS quotes also moved up, to about 
3.7 percent by the end of 2024.  Similarly, nominal 
Treasury yields rose significantly.  The rise in nominal 
yields mostly reflected an increase in real yields, as 
measures of inflation compensation were little changed, 
on net, amid somewhat mixed news on inflation.  
Measures of uncertainty about the path of interest rates 
remained very elevated by historical standards. 
The S&P 500 stock price index increased sizably, on net, 
over the intermeeting period, led by technology-related 
stocks.  The VIX—the one-month option-implied vola-
tility on the S&P 500 index—edged down, on balance, 
and ended the period near the 30th percentile of its his-
torical distribution.  Bank equity price indexes moved up 
notably, on net, over the intermeeting period.  Stock 
prices for large banks were only somewhat below their 
levels before the failure of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), 
while those for regional banks remained below their lev-
els in early March.   
Market-based policy rate expectations rose notably in 
most advanced foreign economies, as core inflation data 
surprised to the upside in some countries and central 
bank communications were perceived as pointing to 
more restrictive policy than expected.  Notwithstanding 
the rise in global yields, foreign equity prices, credit 
spreads, and risk sentiment in foreign markets were little 
changed over the intermeeting period.  The staff’s trade-
weighted broad dollar index was also little changed, on 
net, but the exchange value of the dollar appreciated sig-
nificantly against the Chinese renminbi amid increased 
investor concerns over China’s economic growth pro-
spects. 
Conditions in overnight bank funding and repurchase 
agreement markets remained generally stable over the in-
termeeting period.  The 25 basis point increase in admin-
istered rates at the May FOMC meeting fully passed 
through to overnight money market rates.  Spreads and 
issuance volumes in unsecured short-term funding mar-
kets stayed within their typical ranges.  In May, yields of 
Treasury bills maturing in June and thus potentially af-
fected by the federal debt limit rose sharply before 
largely retracing those increases after an agreement was 
reached to suspend the debt limit.   
In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs for busi-
nesses, households, and municipalities increased notably 
over the intermeeting period.  Interest rates on newly 
originated bank loans to businesses and households in 
the first quarter rose further above their peaks from the 
previous tightening cycle, and yields on leveraged loans 
also rose, reaching levels close to their peak at the onset 
of the pandemic.  Rates also moved up on a broad array 
of fixed-income securities, including investment- and 
speculative-grade corporate bonds, municipal bonds, 
both agency and non-agency commercial mortgage-
backed securities (CMBS), and agency residential  
mortgage-backed securities.  The increases in yields on 
these instruments over the intermeeting period were 
generally in line with, or less than, the changes in their 
Treasury benchmarks.  Small businesses and households 
saw continued increases in their borrowing costs.  Rates 
on 30-year conforming residential mortgages stepped 
up, broadly in line with increases in comparable-duration 
Treasury yields.  Interest rates on credit card offers con-
tinued to rise through April, and auto loan interest rates 
moved sideways during the intermeeting period.  Both 
credit card and auto loan interest rates stood at, or near, 
their highest levels since the Global Financial Crisis. 
Banks’ ability to fund loans to businesses and consumers 
appeared to have stabilized in recent weeks but remained 
somewhat strained relative to before the closure of SVB 
in March.  Although banks continued to experience out-
flows of core deposits, the pace of those outflows mod-
erated substantially relative to March, suggesting some 
easing of bank funding pressures.  Banks also continued 
to attract inflows of large time deposits, reflecting higher 
interest rates on new certificates of deposit.  Total bank 
assets were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting 
period.   
In capital markets, funding had generally been resilient.  
Issuance of nonfinancial investment-grade corporate 
bonds rose at a robust pace in May after slowing in April, 
partly due to the “earnings blackout” period.  Specula-
tive-grade issuance increased in late April and in May but 
remained subdued by historical standards.  Gross issu-
ance of municipal bonds was solid in April and May. 
Conditions in the leveraged loan and CMBS markets 
were somewhat more strained.  Leveraged loan issuance 
remained subdued, reflecting weak investor demand 
amid concerns over the credit worthiness of borrowers.  
Both agency and non-agency CMBS issuance volumes 
were low in May relative to pre-pandemic levels.  In ad-
dition, for small businesses, credit availability continued 
to show signs of tightening.  
Credit remained easily available in the residential mort-
gage market for high credit score borrowers who met 
standard conforming loan criteria.  For borrowers with 
lower scores, credit availability tightened slightly in April 
but remained close to pre-pandemic levels.  In consumer 
credit markets, conditions stayed generally accommoda-
tive, with credit available for most borrowers.   
The credit quality of most businesses and households re-
mained solid, although market participants appeared to 
expect some deterioration in the coming quarters, which 
could weaken lender balance sheets and possibly weigh 
on credit availability.  A measure of the May CMBS de-
linquency rate showed about a 50 basis point increase, 
driven by a sharp rise in the delinquency rate for office 
buildings. 
Staff Economic Outlook 
The economic forecast prepared by the staff for the June 
FOMC meeting continued to assume that the effects of 
the expected further tightening in bank credit condi-
tions, amid already tight financial conditions, would lead 
to a mild recession starting later this year, followed by a 
moderately paced recovery.  Real GDP was projected to 
decelerate in the current quarter and the next one before 
declining modestly in both the fourth quarter of this year 
and first quarter of next year.  Real GDP growth over 
2024 and 2025 was projected to be below the staff’s es-
timate of potential output growth.  The unemployment 
rate was forecast to increase this year, peak next year, 
and remain near that level through 2025.  Current tight 
resource utilization in both product and labor markets 
was forecast to ease, with the level of real output moving 
below the staff’s estimate of potential output in 2025 and 
the unemployment rate rising above the staff’s estimate 
of its natural rate at that time. 
The staff’s inflation forecast was little revised relative to 
the previous projection, and supply–demand imbalances 
in both goods markets and labor markets were still 
judged to be easing only slowly.  On a four-quarter 
change basis, total PCE price inflation was projected to 
be 3.0 percent this year, with core inflation at 3.7 per-
cent.  Core goods inflation was forecast to move down 
further this year and then remain subdued.  Housing ser-
vices inflation was considered to have about peaked and 
was expected to move down over the rest of the year.  
Core nonhousing services inflation was projected to 
slow gradually as nominal wage growth eased further.  
Reflecting the effects of the easing in resource utilization 
over the projection, core inflation was forecast to slow 
through next year but remain moderately above 2 per-
cent.  With expected declines in consumer energy prices 
and further moderation in food price inflation, total in-
flation was projected to run below core inflation this year 
and the next.  In 2025, both total and core PCE price 
inflation were expected to be close to 2 percent. 
The staff continued to judge that uncertainty around the 
baseline projection was considerable and still viewed the 
risks as being influenced importantly by the potential 
macroeconomic implications of banking-sector develop-
ments, which could end up being more, or less, negative 
than assumed in the baseline.  Given the continued 
strength in labor market conditions and the resilience of 
consumer spending, however, the staff saw the possibil-
ity of the economy continuing to grow slowly and avoid-
ing a downturn as almost as likely as the mild-recession 
baseline.  On balance, the staff saw the risks around the 
baseline inflation forecast as tilted to the upside, as eco-
nomic scenarios with higher inflation appeared more 
likely than scenarios with lower inflation and because in-
flation could continue to be more persistent than ex-
pected and inflation expectations could become unan-
chored after a long period of elevated inflation. 
Participants’ Views on Current Conditions and the 
Economic Outlook 
In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, participants 
submitted their projections of the most likely outcomes 
for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and infla-
tion for each year from 2023 through 2025 and over the 
longer run.  The projections were based on their individ-
ual assessments of appropriate monetary policy, includ-
ing the path of the federal funds rate.  The longer-run 
projections represented each participant’s assessment of 
the rate to which each variable would be expected to 
converge, over time, under appropriate monetary policy 
and in the absence of further shocks to the economy.  A 
Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) was released 
to the public following the conclusion of the meeting. 
In their discussion of current economic conditions, par-
ticipants noted that economic activity had continued to 
expand at a modest pace.  Nonetheless, job gains had 
been robust in recent months, and the unemployment 
rate had remained low.  Inflation remained elevated.  
Participants agreed that the U.S. banking system was 
sound and resilient.  They commented that tighter credit 
conditions for households and businesses were likely to 
weigh on economic activity, hiring, and inflation.  How-
ever, participants agreed that the extent of these effects 
remained uncertain.  Against this background, partici-
pants concurred that they remained highly attentive to 
inflation risks. 
In assessing the economic outlook, most participants 
noted that real GDP growth had been resilient in recent 
quarters.  Participants generally judged that growth 
would be subdued over the remainder of this year.  They 
assessed that the cumulative tightening of monetary pol-
icy over the past year had contributed significantly to 
more restrictive financial conditions and lower demand 
in the most interest rate sensitive sectors of the econ-
omy, especially housing and business investment.  Par-
ticipants also acknowledged uncertainty about the lags 
with which monetary policy affects the economy and 
discussed the extent to which the full effects of mone-
tary tightening on the economy had been realized.  While 
total inflation had moderated over the past year, core in-
flation had not shown a sustained easing since the begin-
ning of the year.  With inflation well above the Commit-
tee’s longer-run 2 percent objective, participants ex-
pected that a period of below-trend growth in real GDP 
and some softening in labor market conditions would be 
needed to bring aggregate supply and aggregate demand 
into better balance and reduce inflationary pressures suf-
ficiently to return inflation to 2 percent over time. 
Participants generally noted that banking stresses had re-
ceded and conditions in the banking sector were much 
improved since early March.  Participants generally con-
tinued to judge that a tightening in credit conditions 
spurred by banking-sector stress earlier in the year would 
likely weigh further on economic activity, but the extent 
remained uncertain.  Several participants mentioned that 
credit conditions had not appeared to have tightened sig-
nificantly beyond what would be expected in response 
to the monetary policy actions taken since early last year.  
Some participants judged that it was still too early to as-
sess with confidence the eventual effects of tighter bank 
credit conditions on economic activity and noted that it 
would be important to monitor closely the potential ef-
fects of banking-sector developments on credit condi-
tions and economic activity. 
In their discussion of the household sector, participants 
generally noted that consumer spending so far this year 
had been stronger than expected.  Several participants 
noted that aggregate household wealth remained high, as 
equity and home prices had not declined much from 
their recent highs.  A few participants mentioned that 
while, overall, the household sector still retained much 
of the excess savings it had accumulated during the pan-
demic, there were signs that consumers were facing in-
creasingly tighter budget constraints, given high inflation 
and, especially for low-income households, depleted sav-
ings.     
Regarding the business sector, various participants said 
that reports from their contacts were mixed, with some 
pointing to softening economic conditions and others 
indicating greater-than-expected strength.  Many partic-
ipants noted that developments in the banking sector ap-
peared to have had only a modest effect so far on credit 
availability for firms.  Some participants remarked that 
the effect of high interest rates on the housing sector ap-
peared to be bottoming out, with home sales, builder 
sentiment, and new construction all having improved a 
little since the start of the year. 
In their discussion of economic activity, several partici-
pants pointed out that recent GDP readings had been 
stronger than expected earlier in the year, while gross 
domestic income (GDI) readings had been weak.  Of 
those who noted the discrepancy between GDP and 
GDI, most suggested that economic momentum may 
not be as strong as indicated by the GDP readings.  In 
discussing that possibility, a couple of these participants 
also cited the recent subdued growth in aggregate hours 
worked.  
Participants noted that labor market conditions re-
mained very tight, with robust payroll gains and the un-
employment rate still near historically low levels.  Nev-
ertheless, they noted some signs that supply and demand 
in the labor market were coming into better balance, 
with the prime-age labor force participation rate moving 
up in recent months and further reductions in rates of 
job openings and quits, and declines in average weekly 
hours.  A couple of participants conveyed that they 
heard at a recent Fed Listens event that, in various parts 
of the country, the lack of affordable housing in the area 
was preventing some lower-income workers from relo-
cating to accept jobs.  Similarly, a few participants noted 
that their District contacts reported less difficulty in hir-
ing and retaining workers, lower turnover rates, and 
some layoffs.  Some participants pointed out that payroll 
gains had remained robust but noted that some other 
measures of employment—such as those based on the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics’ household survey, the Quar-
terly Census of Employment and Wages, or the Board 
staff’s measure of private employment using data from 
the payroll processing firm ADP—suggested that job 
growth may have been weaker than indicated by payroll 
employment.  Participants anticipated that employment 
growth would likely slow further, consistent with their 
projections of below-trend economic growth.  Partici-
pants noted that nominal wage growth had shown signs 
of easing but observed that it was still running at a pace 
that, given current estimates of trend productivity 
growth, was above what would be consistent over the 
longer run with the Committee’s 2 percent inflation ob-
jective.  Participants expected supply and demand con-
ditions in the labor market to come into better balance 
over time, easing pressures on wages and prices.   
Participants agreed that inflation was unacceptably high 
and noted that the data, including the CPI for May, indi-
cated that declines in inflation had been slower than they 
had expected.  Participants observed that although core 
goods inflation had moderated since the middle of last 
year, it had slowed less rapidly than expected in recent 
months, despite data and reports from business contacts 
indicating that supply chain constraints had continued to 
ease.  Some participants noted the recent moderation in 
housing services inflation and expected this trend to 
continue.  However, a few participants pointed to upside 
risks to the outlook for housing services inflation asso-
ciated with near-record low inventories of homes for 
sale, solid housing demand, and less-than-expected de-
celeration recently in measures of rents for leases signed 
by new tenants.  Additionally, some participants re-
marked that core nonhousing services inflation had 
shown few signs of slowing in the past few months.  Sev-
eral participants noted that longer-term measures of in-
flation expectations from surveys of households and 
businesses remained well anchored.  Participants empha-
sized that, with appropriate firming of monetary policy, 
well-anchored longer-term inflation expectations would 
support a return of inflation to the Committee’s 2 per-
cent longer-run goal over time. 
Participants generally noted a high degree of uncertainty 
regarding the cumulative effects on the economy from 
both already-enacted monetary policy tightening and the 
potential additional tightening in credit conditions stem-
ming from recent banking-sector developments.  Partic-
ipants noted that the full effects of monetary tightening 
had likely yet to be observed, though several highlighted 
the possibility that much of the effect of past monetary 
policy tightening may have already been realized.  Re-
garding downside risks to economic activity, participants 
noted the possibility that the cumulative and rapid tight-
ening of monetary policy would eventually affect eco-
nomic activity more than expected, and that the addi-
tional effects of the tightening of bank credit conditions 
could prove more substantial than anticipated.  Regard-
ing risks to inflation, with inflation remaining well above 
the Committee’s longer-run goal, some participants 
mentioned the possibility that longer-term inflation ex-
pectations could become unanchored, particularly in 
light of stronger-than-expected consumer demand and a 
still-tight labor market.  Several participants cited the 
possibility of delayed effects of tighter credit conditions 
potentially contributing to a slowdown in economic ac-
tivity that reduces inflationary pressures. 
In their consideration of appropriate monetary policy ac-
tions at this meeting, participants concurred that while 
inflation had moderated since the middle of 2022, it re-
mained well above the Committee’s longer-run goal of 
2 percent.  Economic activity had continued to expand 
at a modest pace.  The labor market remained very tight, 
with robust job gains in recent months and the unem-
ployment rate still low, but there were some signs that 
supply and demand in the labor market were coming 
into better balance.  The economy was facing headwinds 
from tighter credit conditions, including higher interest 
rates, for households and businesses, which would likely 
weigh on economic activity, hiring, and inflation, al-
though the extent of these effect remained uncertain.  
Against this backdrop, and in consideration of the sig-
nificant cumulative tightening in the stance of monetary 
policy and the lags with which policy affects economic 
activity and inflation, almost all participants judged it ap-
propriate or acceptable to maintain the target range for 
the federal funds rate at 5 to 5¼ percent at this meeting.  
Most of these participants observed that leaving the tar-
get range unchanged at this meeting would allow them 
more time to assess the economy’s progress toward the 
Committee’s goals of maximum employment and price 
stability.  Some participants indicated that they favored 
raising the target range for the federal funds rate 25 basis 
points at this meeting or that they could have supported 
such a proposal.  The participants favoring a 25 basis 
point increase noted that the labor market remained very 
tight, momentum in economic activity had been stronger 
than earlier anticipated, and there were few clear signs 
that inflation was on a path to return to the Committee’s 
2 percent objective over time.  All participants agreed 
that it was appropriate to continue the process of reduc-
ing the Federal Reserve’s securities holdings, as de-
scribed in its previously announced Plans for Reducing 
the Size of the Federal Reserve’s Balance Sheet. 
In discussing the policy outlook, all participants contin-
ued to anticipate that, with inflation still well above the 
Committee’s 2 percent goal and the labor market re-
maining very tight, maintaining a restrictive stance for 
monetary policy would be appropriate to achieve the 
Committee’s objectives.  Almost all participants noted 
that in their economic projections that they judged that 
additional increases in the target federal funds rate dur-
ing 2023 would be appropriate.  Most participants ob-
served that uncertainty about the outlook for the econ-
omy and inflation remained elevated and that additional 
information would be valuable for considering the ap-
propriate stance of monetary policy.  Many also noted 
that, after rapidly tightening the stance of monetary pol-
icy last year, the Committee had slowed the pace of tight-
ening and that a further moderation in the pace of policy 
firming was appropriate in order to provide additional 
time to observe the effects of cumulative tightening and 
assess their implications for policy.  Participants agreed 
that their policy decisions at every meeting would con-
tinue to be based on the totality of incoming information 
and its implications for the economic outlook as well as 
the balance of risks.  They also emphasized the im-
portance of communicating to the public their data- 
dependent approach.  Most participants observed that 
postmeeting communications, including the SEP, would 
help clarify their assessment regarding the stance of 
monetary policy that is likely to be appropriate to bring 
inflation down to 2 percent over time.    
Participants also discussed several risk-management 
considerations that could bear on future policy deci-
sions.  Almost all participants stated that, with inflation 
still well above the Committee’s longer-run goal and the 
labor market remaining tight, upside risks to the inflation 
outlook or the possibility that persistently high inflation 
might cause inflation expectations to become unan-
chored remained key factors shaping the policy outlook.  
Even though economic activity had been resilient re-
cently and that the labor market remained strong, some 
participants commented that there continued to be 
downside risks to economic growth and upside risks to 
unemployment.  Despite the receding of the stresses in 
the banking sector, some participants commented that it 
would be important to monitor whether developments 
in the banking sector lead to further tightening of credit 
conditions and weigh on economic activity.  Some par-
ticipants noted concerns about the potential risks stem-
ming from weakness in commercial real estate.   
A number of participants observed that the resolution 
of the federal government debt limit had removed one 
source of significant uncertainty for the economic out-
look.  A few participants noted that there could be some 
upward pressure on money market rates in the near term 
as the Treasury issued more bills to meet expenditures 
and return the balance in the TGA to the Treasury’s pre-
ferred level.  Those participants observed that upward 
pressure on money market rates relative to the rate of-
fered on the ON RRP facility could lead to a decline in 
usage of the facility. 
Committee Policy Actions 
In their discussion of monetary policy for this meeting, 
members agreed that economic activity had continued to 
expand at a modest pace.  They also concurred that job 
gains had been robust in recent months, and the unem-
ployment rate had remained low.  Inflation had remained 
elevated. 
Members concurred that the U.S. banking system was 
sound and resilient.  They also agreed that tighter credit 
conditions for households and businesses were likely to 
weigh on economic activity, hiring, and inflation, but 
that the extent of these effects was uncertain.  Members 
also concurred that they remained highly attentive to in-
flation risks. 
Members agreed that the Committee seeks to achieve 
maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 per-
cent over the longer run.  In support of these goals, the 
members agreed to maintain the target range for the fed-
eral funds rate at 5 to 5¼ percent.  Members agreed that 
holding the target range steady at this meeting allowed 
the Committee to assess additional information and its 
implications for monetary policy.  In determining the ex-
tent of additional policy firming that may be appropriate 
to return inflation to 2 percent over time, members con-
curred that they will take into account the cumulative 
tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which mon-
etary policy affects economic activity and inflation, and 
economic and financial developments.  In addition, 
members agreed that the Committee will continue to re-
duce the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securi-
ties and agency debt and agency mortgage-backed secu-
rities, as described in its previously announced plans.  All 
members affirmed that they are strongly committed to 
returning inflation to their 2 percent objective. 
Members agreed that, in assessing the appropriate stance 
of monetary policy, they would continue to monitor the 
implications of incoming information for the economic 
outlook.  They would be prepared to adjust the stance of 
monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could 
impede the attainment of the Committee’s goals.  Mem-
bers also agreed that their assessments will take into ac-
count a wide range of information, including readings on 
labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation 
expectations, and financial and international develop-
ments. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee 
voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the 
System Open Market Account in accordance with the 
following domestic policy directive, for release at 
2:00 p.m.: 
“Effective June 15, 2023, the Federal Open 
Market Committee directs the Desk to: 
• Undertake open market operations as nec-
essary to maintain the federal funds rate in 
a target range of 5 to 5¼ percent. 
• Conduct standing overnight repurchase 
agreement operations with a minimum bid 
rate of 5.25 percent and with an aggregate 
operation limit of $500 billion. 
• Conduct standing overnight reverse repur-
chase agreement operations at an offering 
rate of 5.05 percent and with a per-counter-
party limit of $160 billion per day. 
• Roll over at auction the amount of principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s hold-
ings of Treasury securities maturing in each 
calendar month that exceeds a cap of 
$60 billion per month.  Redeem Treasury 
coupon securities up to this monthly cap 
and Treasury bills to the extent that coupon 
principal payments are less than the 
monthly cap. 
• Reinvest into agency mortgage-backed se-
curities (MBS) the amount of principal pay-
ments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings 
of agency debt and agency MBS received in 
each calendar month that exceeds a cap of 
$35 billion per month. 
• Allow modest deviations from stated 
amounts for reinvestments, if needed for 
operational reasons. 
• Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settle-
ment of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS 
transactions.” 
The vote also encompassed approval of the statement 
below for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“Recent indicators suggest that economic activ-
ity has continued to expand at a modest pace.  
Job gains have been robust in recent months, 
and the unemployment rate has remained low.  
Inflation remains elevated. 
The U.S. banking system is sound and resilient.  
Tighter credit conditions for households and 
businesses are likely to weigh on economic ac-
tivity, hiring, and inflation.  The extent of these 
effects remains uncertain.  The Committee re-
mains highly attentive to inflation risks. 
The Committee seeks to achieve maximum em-
ployment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent 
over the longer run.  In support of these goals, 
the Committee decided to maintain the target 
range for the federal funds rate at 5 to 5¼ per-
cent.  Holding the target range steady at this 
meeting allows the Committee to assess addi-
tional information and its implications for mon-
etary policy.  In determining the extent of addi-
tional policy firming that may be appropriate to 
return inflation to 2 percent over time, the 
Committee will take into account the cumula-
tive tightening of monetary policy, the lags with 
which monetary policy affects economic activity 
and inflation, and economic and financial devel-
opments.  In addition, the Committee will con-
tinue reducing its holdings of Treasury securi-
ties and agency debt and agency mortgage-
backed securities, as described in its previously 
announced plans.  The Committee is strongly 
committed to returning inflation to its 2 percent 
objective. 
In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary 
policy, the Committee will continue to monitor 
the implications of incoming information for 
the economic outlook.  The Committee would 
be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary 
policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could 
impede the attainment of the Committee’s 
goals.  The Committee’s assessments will take 
into account a wide range of information, in-
cluding readings on labor market conditions, in-
flation pressures and inflation expectations, and 
financial and international developments.” 
Voting for this action:  Jerome H. Powell, John C. 
Williams, Michael S. Barr, Michelle W. Bowman, Lisa D. 
Cook, Austan D. Goolsbee, Patrick Harker, Philip N. 
Jefferson, Neel Kashkari, Lorie K. Logan, and 
Christopher J. Waller. 
Voting against this action:  None. 
Consistent with the Committee’s decision to leave the 
target range for the federal funds rate unchanged, the 
Board voted unanimously to maintain the interest rate 
paid on reserve balances at 5.15 percent, effective 
June 15, 2023.  The Board also voted unanimously to 
approve the establishment of the primary credit rate at 
the existing level of 5.25 percent. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee 
would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, July 25–26, 
2023.  The meeting adjourned at 10:20 a.m. on June 14, 
2023. 
Notation Vote 
By notation vote completed on May 23, 2023, the Com-
mittee unanimously approved the minutes of the Com-
mittee meeting held on May 2–3, 2023. 
Joshua Gallin 
Secretary 
